                                                                                              UNEP/MC/COP.3/Dec.1



                                                                                                        MC
 UNITED
 NATIONS
                                                                            UNEP/MC/COP.3/Dec.1
                                                                            Distr.: General
                                                                            7 January 2020
                                                                            Original: English


                 United Nations
                 Environment
                 Programme
Conference of the Parties to the
Minamata Convention on Mercury
Third meeting
Geneva, 25–29 November 2019


             Decision adopted by the third Conference of the Parties to the
             Minamata Convention on Mercury



             MC-3/1: Review of annexes A and B
                    The Conference of the Parties
                    1.       Decides to establish an ad hoc group of experts with terms of reference as set out in the
             annex to the present decision;
                     2.     Requests the secretariat to call for submissions from parties by 31 March 2020,
             including:
                    (a)    Information on mercury-added products and on the availability, technical and
             economic feasibility, and environmental and health risks and benefits of non-mercury alternatives to
             mercury-added products, pursuant to paragraph 4 of article 4 of the Convention;
                     (b)      Information on processes that use mercury or mercury compounds and on the
             availability, technical and economic feasibility and environmental and health risks and benefits of
             mercury-free alternatives to manufacturing processes in which mercury or mercury compounds are
             used, pursuant to paragraph 4 of article 5;
                      3.     Also requests the secretariat to make the submissions received publicly available and
             to invite non-parties and others to provide, by 30 April 2020, further information on the uses of
             mercury and on non-mercury alternatives referred to in the submissions;
                     4.      Further requests the secretariat to provide to the ad hoc group of experts a compilation
             of the submissions and information received pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3 of the present decision
             and to convene a meeting of the group, by no later than 30 June 2020. The ad hoc group of experts is
             to prepare a document in which it will enrich and organize the information received for each use
             covered by the submissions from parties, taking into account further information available to the
             experts, and in which it will clearly identify the sources of its information;
                    5.       Requests the secretariat to make available, by 31 August 2020, to the parties that
             submitted information pursuant to paragraph 2 of the present decision, the information received
             pursuant to paragraph 4 of the present decision;
                    6.    Also requests the secretariat to invite those parties to submit any revised information
             by 30 November 2020;
                     7.      Further requests the secretariat to make publicly available the submissions made by
             parties pursuant to paragraph 6 of the present decision, by 31 December 2020, in accordance with
             paragraph 4 of article 4 and paragraph 4 of article 5 of the Convention;
 UNEP/MC/COP.3/Dec.1

                    8.      Requests the secretariat to prepare, by 30 April 2021, a report on the work of the
            ad hoc group of experts reflecting its activities, including all the information gathered from the group,
            parties and others, for presentation at the fourth meeting of the Conference of the Parties;
                    9.      Requests parties that notified the secretariat at the time of their becoming a party to the
            Convention that they would implement various measures or strategies to address products listed in part
            I of annex A to the Convention to report, by 30 June 2020, on the measures or strategies they have
            implemented, including a quantification of the reductions achieved;
                     10.      Requests the secretariat to compile the submissions made by parties pursuant to
            paragraph 9 of the present decision for consideration during the effectiveness evaluation with respect
            to article 4 of the Convention;
                    11.     Also requests the secretariat to present the compilation of final submissions pursuant to
            paragraphs 7 and 9 of the present decision for consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its
            fourth meeting.

            Annex to decision MC-3/1
            Terms of reference of the ad hoc group of experts
      I.    Mandate
            1.      The Conference of the Parties to the Minamata Convention on Mercury, at its third meeting,
            by decision MC-3/1, established an ad hoc group of experts to prepare a document in which it will
            enhance and organize the information for each use submitted by parties in accordance with decision
            MC-3/1, taking into account further information available to the experts. The document will clearly
            identify the sources of the information it contains.

     II.    Membership
            2.       The ad hoc group of experts, which at its first meeting will elect two co-chairs, will comprise
            experts nominated by parties from the five United Nations regions as follows: four from the African
            States, four from the Asia-Pacific States, four from the Eastern European States, four from the
            Latin American and Caribbean States and four from the Western European and other States. Before its
            first meeting, the group will invite 10 experts from non-parties and other stakeholders, including
            relevant organizations, possessing specialized technical knowledge relating to the recommended
            qualifications described in section III of the present terms of reference, to participate as observers. The
            ad hoc group of experts may also invite input from Governments, intergovernmental organizations,
            industry and civil society organizations to assist it in its work, as appropriate.

    III.    Recommended qualifications of members and observers
            3.       Members and observers of the ad hoc group of experts should have expertise in at least one of
            the following areas:
                    (a)     Mercury-added products;
                    (b)     Manufacturing processes in which mercury or mercury compounds are used;
                   (c)    Availability and technical and economic feasibility of alternatives to mercury-added
            products or manufacturing processes in which mercury or mercury compounds are used;
                   (d)     Environmental and health risks and benefits of alternatives to mercury-added products
            or manufacturing processes in which mercury or mercury compounds are used;
                    (e)     Regulatory policy to address the human health and environmental risks of mercury.

    IV.     Officers
            4.      The ad hoc group of experts will elect two co-chairs to facilitate its meetings.

     V.     Secretariat
            5.     The secretariat of the Minamata Convention on Mercury will provide support to the ad hoc
            group of experts.
                                                                                        UNEP/MC/COP.3/Dec.1

 VI.    Administrative and procedural matters
        6.     The rules of procedure of the Conference of the Parties will apply, mutatis mutandis, to the
        group.
        7.      The work of the ad hoc group of experts will be organized in such a way as to allow each
        expert to participate in all the activities of the group.

VII.    Meetings
        8.      The ad hoc group of experts will meet face to face once during the intersessional period
        preceding the fourth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Minamata Convention, subject to
        the availability of resources, and will also work by electronic means.

VIII.   Language
        9.     The working language of the group will be English.
