
 Agreement for the Establishment and Management of a Cross-Border Protected Area between the Republic of Moldova, Romania and Ukraine in the Danube Delta and the Lower Prut Nature Protected Areas   
     Filename: 2000-DanubeDeltaLowerPrut.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.mmediu.ro/afaceri_europene/tratate/14_Acord_Romania_Moldova_Ucraina_D…     
    ﻿AGREEMENT of 5 June 2000 from the Ministry of Waters, Forests and Environmental Protection of Romania, Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning of the Republic of Moldova and the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on cooperation in the area consists of protected natural areas of the Danube Delta and Lower Prut
Source: http://www.mmediu.ro/afaceri_europene/tratate/14_Acord_Romania_Moldova_U..., downloaded 20140626 (Google translate into English)
Ministry of Waters, Forests and Environmental Protection of Romania, Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning of the Republic of Moldova and the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, hereinafter referred to as the Parties,
Aware of the need for cooperation in the protection of biological diversity of the landscape, and, in general, the environment, preserving natural areas and improving the quality of life for local people
Desiring to harmonize their decisions relating to the management of protected natural areas situated in the Danube Delta and Lower Prut,
Decided to preserve the natural values ​​and landscape features in this area and provide a privileged audience to discover and know the nature and environment
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1: The area covered by the agreement
1. Parties agree to establish the Danube Delta and Lower Prut area as protected areas (the natural protected area).
2. Protected natural area includes:
- Lower Prut Scientific Reserve of the Republic of Moldova;
- Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve in Romania;
- Ukrainian Danube Biosphere Reserve.
3. Protected natural area can be changed by consensus of the Parties.
Article 2: Objectives
1. Regarding protected natural area so designated, the Parties undertake, each according to its domestic law:
- Maintain and improve the natural landscape and its specific nature;
- To conserve natural heritage (fauna, flora, habitats);
- To protect ecological values ​​and natural;
- To protect and enhance the cultural heritage (architectural, archaeological, or historical areas);
- To promote information, education and accommodation facilities to the public on a protected natural area within an overall policy aimed at raising public awareness to environmental issues and promote the natural and cultural knowledge;
- To control and guide the economic and socio-cultural activities, according to an integrated approach, consistent with the principles of sustainable development, so that these activities contribute to achieving the objectives stated above and to the welfare stakeholders, without altering the character of the area protected.
2. To this end the parties agree:
- To harmonize their management methods and coordinate all development projects or development in a comprehensive action program, leading ultimately to the development of a joint management plan;
- To coordinate research and monitoring of flora, fauna and natural habitats status and management policy;
- To promote the exchange of information and experience in scientific and technical level between the various authorities responsible for protected area management and a common training program for the staff of these authorities to preserve protected natural area.
Article 3: Establishment and mandate of the Joint Commission
1. Would be established a Joint Committee (the Committee) in order to oversee the implementation of this Agreement and to ensure effective regional cooperation in order to achieve the objectives set out in art. Two.
2. Pursuant to its mandate the Commission will, in particular:
- Treat all problems related to protected area management, make recommendations to the Parties on the measures to be taken and to coordinate their initiatives on protected natural area;
- Decide on programs and actions to be undertaken with the parties to decide how to finance the project and to ensure implementation of these projects;
- Submit, if necessary, proposals to improve the effectiveness of this Agreement, including the signing of additional protocols.
Article 4: Composition and functioning of the Commission
1. Commission will be composed of 9 members. Each Party shall designate a delegation of three members.
2. Presidency Committee will be chaired in turn by each of the three parties, for a period of one year. The holding the Presidency shall appoint one member of the delegation, ensuring president for one year. The order of rotation will be: Romania, Ukraine and Moldova.
3. Committee will meet at least twice a year. 
4. Each party shall bear the expenses of its delegation to participate in Commission meetings. Holding the Presidency will provide the secretariat meetings and shall bear the cost of organizing these meetings.
5. Each delegation has one vote. Commission decisions shall be taken by consensus and no decision can be taken only in the presence of 3 parts.
6. Representatives of international organizations and institutions mentioned below will have observer status in the Committee:
- Council of Europe;
- UNESCO;
- European Commission
- The Bureau of the Convention on Wetlands of International Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat water, ending Ramsar on 2 February 1971;
- Secretariat of the Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Animals, adoptive Bonn on 23 June 1979.
7. Commission may also engage in activities, at their request or on its own initiative, the following bodies:
- Other organizations or institutions;
- Local and regional authorities within the protected area;
- Non-governmental organizations and associations, through their competence and expertise in the field of nature conservation and landscape and environmental protection in general can contribute to the Commission's activities.
8. In discharging its functions the Commission may create specific working groups and can call upon the services of experts. However it can not delegate the exercise of its decision.
9. Commission will present the parties, each year, a report on the activities.
10. Commission shall by consensus adopt its rules of procedure in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Article 5: Dispute Resolution
Any dispute concerning the interpretation or implementation of this Agreement shall be resolved through negotiations between the parties.
Article 6 of the agreement period
This Agreement shall remain in force indefinitely, except in case one of the parties notifies the other in writing of its intention to terminate, 6 months after notification.
Article 7: Entry into force of the Agreement
This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of receipt by the Depositary of the last notification by which the Parties will inform the fulfillment of internal legal procedures necessary for entry into force.
Article 8: Amendments to the Agreement
Amendments to this Agreement and its Additional Protocols will enter into force in accordance with the procedure set out in art. July.
Article 9: Dissemination Agreement
Each party will broadcast this Agreement by the authorities and administrations concerned in his country.
Article 10 Relationship to other international agreements
The provisions of this Agreement shall not affect the rights and obligations of Parties under other international agreements.
Article 11 Final provisions
This Agreement is drawn up in four originals, each in Romanian, Ukrainian and English languages, all texts being equally authentic. In case of divergence of interpretation, the English text shall prevail. Each party will receive an original copy. An English-language original shall be deposited with the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.
Signed in Bucharest on June 5, 2000.
Ministry of Waters, Forests and Environmental Protection of Romania,
Romică Tomescu, minister
Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning of the Republic of Moldova
Arcadia Capcelea, minister
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine
Ivan Zayets, minister 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

