
 Convention For The Protection Of Birds Useful To Agriculture   
     Filename: 1902-ProtectionBirdsUsefulAgriculture.EN.txt 
 Source: http://eelink.net/~asilwildlife/bird_1902.html     
    ﻿Convention For The Protection Of Birds Useful To Agriculture
Source: http://eelink.net/~asilwildlife/bird_1902.html and Herman, Otto. The International Convention for the Protection of Birds concluded in 1902; and Hungary. Historical Sketch. Written by Order of His Exc. Ignatius de Darányi, Hungarian Minister of Agriculture. Publication of the Royal Hungarian Minister of Agriculture. Budapest: Victor Hornyánszky, Court Printer, 1907, pp. 126-137.
[Ed: Amendments to the original convention are designated by deletions enclosed in double square brackets [[]] and additions in double braces {{}}. Exact dates of amendments are unknown.]
His Majesty the Emperor of Austria, King of Bohemia etc. and Apostolic King of Hungary, in the name of his Highness Prince Lichtenstein as well; His Majesty the German Emperor, King of Prussia, in the name of the German Empire; His Majesty the King of the Belgians; His Majesty the King of Spain, and, in his name, Her Majesty the Queen-Regent of the Kingdom; the President of the French Republic; His Majesty the King of the Hellenes; His Royal Highness the Grand Duke of Luxemburg; His Highness the Prince of Monaco; His Majesty the King of Portugal and Algarbia; His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, in the name of Sweden; and the Federal Council of Switzerland, considering the adoption by the Various States of an uniform procedure concerning the protection of birds useful to agriculture, have determined to make a Convention and have appointed as their respective plenipotentiaries for this purpose the following gentlemen:
On behalf of His Majesty the Emperor of Austria, King of Bohemia etc., and Apostolic King of Hungary:
His Excellency Count WOLKENSTEIN-TROSTBURG, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the President of the French Republic;
On behalf of His Majesty the German Emperor, King of Prussia:
His Serene Highness Prince RADOLIN, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the President of the French Republic;
On behalf of His Majesty the King of the Belgians:
Baron D'ANETHAN, Minister Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the President of the French Republic;
On behalf of His Majesty the King of Spain and, in his name, Her Majesty the Queen-Regent of that Kingdom:
His Excellency the Marquis DE LEON Y CASTILLO del Muni, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the President of the French Republic;
On behalf of The President of the French Republic:
His Excellency THEOPHILUS DELCASSÉ, Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Foreign Minister;
On behalf of His Majesty the King of the Hellenes,
M. N. DELYANNIS, Minister Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the President of the French Republic;
On behalf of His Royal Highness the Grand Duke of Luxemburg:
M. VANNERUS, Chargé d'affaires at Paris;
On behalf of His Highness the Prince of Monaco:
M. I. P. DEPELLEY, Chargé d'affaires at Paris;
On behalf of His Majesty the King of Portugal and Algarbia:
M. T. DE SOUZA, Minister Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the President of the French Republic;
On behalf of His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, in the name of Sweden:
M. H. ÅKERMAN, Minister Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the President of the French Republic; and the
On behalf of the Swiss Federal Council:
M. CHARLES LARDY, Minister Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the President of the Republic of France:
The said plenipotentiaries, after an intercommunication of their powers of attorney found good and sufficient, agreed upon the following clauses:
Article 1.
Birds useful to agriculture, particularly the insect-eaters and namely those birds enumerated in the first Schedule attached to the present Convention (which Schedule the Parliaments of the several countries may enlarge by additions) shall be unconditionally protected by a prohibition forbidding them to be killed in any way whatsoever, as well as the destruction of their nests, eggs and broods.
Until such time as this result shall be completely realised, the high contracting parties bind themselves to take, or to propose to their Parliaments to take, all such measures as are necessary to carry the resolutions contained in the following clauses into effect.
Art. 2
It shall be forbidden, at any season and in any manner whatsoever, to steal nests and eggs, to take or destroy nestlings.
The import of these nests, eggs and nestlings, their transport, the colportage of the same, their putting up to sale, their sale and purchase shall be prohibited.
This prohibition does not concern nests built by birds in dwelling-houses, or any kinds of buildings, on the same or in the interior of court-yards, which may be destroyed by owners, occupiers or any person authorised by the same.
{{Further the enactments of the present Clause may be considered invalid in the case of the eggs of lapwings and gulls.}}
Art. 3
The construction and employment of traps, cages, nets, nooses, lime-twigs or any other kind of instruments used for the purpose of rendering easy the wholesale capture or destruction of birds, shall be forbidden.
Art. 4
In case the high contracting parties should not be in a position to enforce the prohibitions included in the preceding clause at once and in their entirety, they may mitigate the severity of the said prohibitions as required, but engage to restrict the use of methods, weapons and instruments of capture and killing in such a manner that the protective measures contained in Art. 3 may be carried into effect gradatim.
Art. 5
Besides the general prohibitions enacted in Art. 3, it shall be forbidden, from March 1 to Sept 15 of each year, to take or kill [[any birds, with the exception of those indicated in articles 8 and 9.]] {{those useful birds which are enumerated in the first Schedule attached to this Convention.}}
The sale or offering for sale of the same is also, during the same period, forbidden.
The high contracting parties engage, as far as their respective laws permit, to prohibit the import and delivery as well as the transport of the said birds from March 1 till Sept. 15.
{{The duration of close season prescribed in this Article may be modified in the countries of Northern Europe.}}
Art. 6
The respective authorities may give exceptional, temporary licences to the owners of vineyards, orchards and gardens, of nurseries, afforested ground or cornfields or to the cultivators of the same or to individuals entrusted with the control of the same, for the shooting of birds whose presence is harmful and causes real damage.
However, the sale or offering for sale of birds shot under such circumstances shall be forbidden.
Art. 7
The respective authorities may grant exemptions from the enactments of this Convention for scientific purposes or to encourage the propagation of birds, in single instances and after taking all measures of precaution necessary to prevent any abuse of the same.
Permission may be granted, - similar preventive measures being taken in every case - for the taking, sale and keeping of birds intended to be kept in cages. Permission to be granted by the respective authorities.
Art. 8
The enactments of the present convention do not apply to poultry, nor to birds regarded as game (winged game) which are on preserves and are included by the Parliaments of the respective countries among birds considered as game.
The destruction of winged game, on any other territory whatsoever, is permitted with firearms only and in the period prescribed by law.
The signatory States [[engage]] {{are requested}} to prohibit the sale, transport and delivery of any winged game the shooting of which is forbidden in their own country, as long as this prohibition lasts.
1 Originally: "s'engagent".
Art. 9
Each of the contracting parties may grant exemption from the enactments of the present Convention,
1. In the case of birds, the shooting and destruction of which, as noxious to the interests of shooting sport and fishing, is permitted by the Parliament of the respective country;
2. In the case of birds branded as noxious to the agriculture of the country by the Parliament of the respective State.
In case there should not be an official schedule compiled by the respective legislature [[article 9 shall apply.]] {{section 2 of the present Clause shall be enforced in the case of those birds which are enumerated in Schedule 2 annexed to this Convention.}}
Art. 10
The high contracting parties will take steps to have their laws brought into harmony with the enactments of the present Convention [[from the date of entry into force of the Convention.]] {{within three years from the date of the signing of the said Convention.}}
Art. 11
The high contracting parties engage to intercommunicate, through the medium of the French Government, all laws and municipal measures which are at present in force or have lately come into being regarding the subject of the present Convention.
Art. 12
The high contracting parties, should they find it expedient, shall have themselves represented at an international conference deputed to discuss questions that may arise in connexion with the carrying into effect of the Convention and to propose any modifications, the expediency of which has been justified by experience.
Art. 13
Those States which have not participated in the present Convention may join the same, if they wish to do so. Any such intention must be diplomatically communicated to the Government of the French Republic and by the same to the Governments of the other signatory Powers.
Art. 14
The present Convention shall come in force at latest within a year from the date of the interchanging of papers.
It remains in force for all the signatory Powers for an indefinite period. Should any one of the same withdraw, such withdrawal does not affect the other Powers, and comes in force only one year from the day on which the withdrawal was brought to the notice of the other signatory States.
Art. 15
The present Convention shall be ratified and the ratified documents shall be interchanged at Paris within the shortest time possible.
{{Art. 16.
The enforcing of the measures contained in the second paragraph of Clause 8 of the present Convention may be dispensed with exceptionally in the Northern provinces of Sweden, owing to the absolutely peculiar climatic conditions of those regions.}}
In confirmation of which the respective plenipotentiaries have signed the present Convention and affixed their seals thereto.
Paris, March 19, 1902.
(Signed)
In the name of Austria and Hungary, the
Ambassador of Austria-Hungary,
A. WOLKENSTEIN.
(Signed) RADOLIN.
(Signed) Baron d'ANETHAN.
(Signed) F. LEON Y CASTILLO.
(Signed) DELCASSÉ.
(Signed) N. S. DELYANNI.
(Signed) VANNERUS.
(Signed) I. DEPELLEY.
(Signed) ROZA DE SOUZA.
(Signed) ÅKERMAN.
(Signed) LARDY. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

