
 Convention concerning the Organisation of Combat against Locusts   
     Filename: 1920-OrganizationCampaignAgainstLocusts.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/1922/8.html     
    ﻿CONVENTION REGARDING THE ORGANISATION OF THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST LOCUSTS
Source: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/1922/8.html
Convention of 31 October 1920 regarding the Organisation of the Campaign against Locusts concluded at Rome between the following countries: Argentine Republic, Bulgaria, Cuba, France, French West Africa, Algeria, Indo-China, Madagascar, Morocco (French Zone), Regency of Tunis, Hungary, Italy, Eritrea and Italian Somaliland, Tripolitania and Cirenaica, Mexico, Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia and Uruguay,
Who have appointed as their Plenipotentiaries:
[Names of plenipotentiaries not listed here.]
The undersigned, Plenipotentiaries of the Governments of the countries enumerated above, having met in conference at Rome, at the Palace of the International Institute of Agriculture, have agreed on the following provisions:
Article 1
The contracting States hereby undertake to take the necessary measures against locusts liable to damage the crops of neighbouring States, signatories of the present Convention.
Article 2
They shall take all useful measures to warn neighbouring States which have acceded to the present Convention, by the most rapid means, of the movements of the locusts referred to in Article 1.
Article 3
In their mutual interests they may conclude special agreements with a view to taking joint measures to facilitate the campaign against locusts.
Article 4
As from the date of signature of the present Convention, they shall recognise the International Institute of Agriculture at Rome as the official centre for documentation and for the spreading of information regarding all questions relating to the campaign against locusts.
They undertake to supply the Institute, at least once a year and more often if circumstances so require, with all relative technical, scientific, legislative and administrative information collected by competent persons.
The International Institute of Agriculture shall give such information the widest possible publicity with the least possible delay.
Article 5
Any proposal coming from a contracting State regarding amendments to the present Convention shall be communicated by that State to the International Institute of Agriculture and referred by the Institute to a meeting of delegates of the Contracting Parties, which shall be convened at Rome by the Institute at the time of a General Assembly of that institution.
The proposals made by the delegates shall then be submitted for approval to the States which have acceded to the present Convention.
Article 6
The present Convention shall be signed and ratified as soon as possible and ratifications shall be deposited with the Italian Government as soon as at least three of the contracting States are in a position to do so.
Each ratification shall be communicated by the Italian Government to the other contracting States and to the International Institute of Agriculture.
Article 7
Any self-governing State, Dominion or Colony which has not signed the present Convention may at its own request accede thereto.
Colonies, at the request of the States to which they belong, may also be allowed to accede to the Convention under the same conditions as independent States.
Article 8
Accession shall be notified through diplomatic channels to the Italian Government and by the latter to the contracting Governments and to the International Institute of Agriculture.
Article 9
The present Convention shall come into force, at least for the first three States that have ratified it, within three months as from the date of ratification, and in the case of other States six months after their ratifications or accessions have been notified to the Italian Government.
IN FAITH WHEREOF the Plenipotentiaries, whose powers have been found in good and due form, have signed the present Convention.
DONE at Rome this 31st day of October, 1920, in a single copy, which shall be deposited at the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and true copies of which shall be sent to all States acceding to the present Convention.
[Signatures not reproduced here.] 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

