
 Convention Relating To The Development Of Hydraulic Power Affecting More Than One State   
     Filename: 1923-DevelopmentHydraulicPower.EN.txt 
 Source: LNTS, vol. 36, pp. 77.     
    ﻿ Convention Relating To The Development Of Hydraulic Power Affecting More Than One State
 Source: LNTS, vol. 36, pp. 77.
 AUSTRIA, BELGIUM, THE BRITISH EMPIRE (with NEW ZEALAND), BULGARIA, CHILE, DENMARK, THE FREE CITY OF DANZIG, FRANCE, GREECE, HUNGARY, ITALY, LITHUANIA, POLAND, KINGDOM OF THE SERBS, CROATS AND SLOVENES, SIAM AND URUGUAY,
 Desirous of promoting international agreement for the purpose of facilitating the exploitation and increasing the yield of hydraulic power;
 Having accepted the invitation of the League of Nations to take part in the Conference which met at Geneva on November 15, 1923;
 Wishing to conclude a General Convention for the above purpose,
 The High Contracting Parties have appointed as their plenipotentiaries:
 THE PRESIDENT OF THE AUSTRIAN REPUBLIC:
 M. Emerich PFLÜGL, Resident Minister, Representative of the Federal Government accredited to the League of Nations, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit;
 HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF THE BELGIANS:
 M. Xavier NEUJEAN, Minister of Railways, Mercantile Marine, Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones of Belgium, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit;
 HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND AND OF THE BRITISH DOMINIONS BEYOND THE SEAS, EMPEROR OF INDIA:
 Sir Hubert LLEWELLYN SMITH, G.C.B., Chief Economic Adviser of the British Government, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit;
 FOR THE DOMINION OF NEW ZEALAND:
 The Honourable Sir James ALLEN, K.C.B., High Commissioner for New Zealand in the United Kingdom;
 HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF THE BULGARIANS:
 M. D. MIKOFF, Chargé d'Affaires at Berne;
 THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE:
 M. Francisco RIVAS VICUÑA, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to the Swiss Federal Council, to the President of the Czechoslovak Republic, to the President of the Austrian Federal Republic and to His Serene Highness the Governor of Hungary, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit;
 HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF DENMARK:
 M. P. A. HOLCK-COLDING, Director of Section at the Ministry of Public Works, Member of the Advisory and Technical Committee for Communications and Transit, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit;
 THE PRESIDENT OF THE POLISH REPUBLIC, FOR THE FREE CITY OF DANZIG:
 Professor Bohdan WINIARSKI, Vice-Chairman of the Advisory and Technical Committee for Communications and Transit, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit;
 THE PRESIDENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC
 M. Maurice SIBILLE, Member of Parliament, Member of the Advisory and Technical Committee for Communications and Transit, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit;
 HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF THE HELLENES
 M. A. POLITIS, Technical Representative of the Hellenic Government in Paris, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit, and
 M. Demetre G. PHOCAS, Captain in the Hellenic Navy, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit;
 HIS SERENE HIGHNESS THE GOVERNOR OF HUNGARY:
 M. Emile DE WALTER, Ministerial Counsellor at the Royal Hungarian Ministry for Foreign. Affairs, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit;
 HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF ITALY:
 M. Paolo BIGNAMI, former Under-Secretary of State, former Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit;
 THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA:
 M. C. DOBKEVICIUS, Counsellor at the Lithuanian Legation in Paris, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit;
 THE PRESIDENT OF THE POLISH REPUBLIC
 Professor Bohdan WINIARSKI, Vice-Chairman of the Advisory and Technical Committee for Communications and Transit, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit;
 HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF THE SERBS, CROATS AND SLOVENES:
 M. B. VOUKOVITCH, Director of the State Railways, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit;
 HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF SIAM:
 M. Phya SANPAKITCH PREECHA, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to His Majesty the King of Spain and to His Majesty the King of Italy, Delegate at the Second General Conference on Communications and Transit;
 THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY:
 M. Benjamin FERNANDEZ Y MEDINA, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to His Majesty the King of Spain, Chairman of the Advisory and Technical Committee for Communications and Transit;
 who, after communicating their full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed as follows:
 Article 1.
 The present Convention in no way affects the right belonging to each State, within the limits of international law, to carry out on its own territory any operations for the development of hydraulic power which it may consider desirable.
 Article 2.
 Should reasonable development of hydraulic power involve international investigation, the Contracting States concerned shall agree to such investigation, which shall be carried out conjointly at the request of any one of them, with a view to arriving at the solution most favourable to their interests as a whole, and to drawing up, if possible, a scheme of development, with due regard for any works already existing, under construction, or projected.
 Any Contracting State desirous of modifying a programme of development so drawn up shall, if necessary, apply for a fresh investigation, under the conditions laid down in the preceding paragraph.
 No State shall be obliged to carry out a programme of development unless it has formally accepted the obligation to do so.
 Article 3.
 If a Contracting State desires to carry out operations for the development of hydraulic power, partly on its own territory and partly on the territory of another Contracting State or involving alterations on the territory of another Contracting State, the States concerned shall enter into negotiations with a view to the conclusion of agreements which will allow such operations to be executed.
 Article 4.
 If a Contracting State desires to carry out operations for the development of hydraulic power which might cause serious prejudice to any other Contracting State, the States concerned shall enter into negotiations with a view to the conclusion of agreements which will allow such operations to be executed.
 Article 5.
 The technical methods adopted in the agreements referred to in the foregoing articles shall, within the limits of the national legislation of the various countries, be based exclusively upon considerations which might legitimately be taken into account in analogous cases of development of hydraulic power affecting only one State, without reference to any political frontier.
 Article 6.
 The agreements contemplated in the foregoing articles may provide, amongst other things, for;
 (a) General conditions for the establishment, upkeep and operation of the works;
 (b) Equitable contributions by the States concerned towards the expenses, risks, damage and charges of every kind incurred as a result of the construction and operation of the works, as well as for meeting the cost of upkeep;
 (c) The settlement of questions of financial co-operation;
 (d) The methods for exercising technical control and securing public safety;
 (e) The protection of sites;
 (f) The regulation of the flow of water;
 (g) The protection of the interests of third parties;
 (h) The method of settling disputes regarding the interpretation or application of the agreements.
 Article 7.
 The establishment and operation of works for the exploitation of hydraulic power shall be subject, in the territory of each State, to the laws and regulations applicable to the establishment and operation of similar works in that State.
 Article 8.
 So far as regards international waterways which, under the terms of the general Convention on the Regime of Navigable Waterways of International Concern, are contemplated as subject to the provisions of that Convention, all rights and obligations which may be derived from agreements concluded in conformity with the present Convention shall be construed subject to all rights and obligations resulting from the general Convention and the special instruments which have been or may be concluded, governing such navigable waterways.
 Article 9.
 This Convention does not prescribe the rights and duties of belligerents and neutrals in time of war. The Convention shall, however, continue in force in time of war so far as such rights and duties permit.
 Article 10.
 This Convention does not entail in any way the withdrawal of facilities which are greater than those provided for in the Statute and which have been granted to international traffic by rail under conditions consistent with its principles. This Convention also entails no prohibition of such grant of greater facilities in the future.
 Article 11.
 The present Convention does not in any way affect the rights and obligations of the Contracting States arising out of former conventions or treaties on the subject-matter of the present Convention, or out of the provisions on the same subject-matter in general treaties, including the Treaties of Versailles, Trianon and other treaties which ended the war of 1914-18.
 Article 12.
 If a dispute arise between Contracting States as to the application or interpretation of the present Statute, and if such dispute cannot be settled either directly between the Parties or by some other amicable method of procedure, the Parties to the dispute may submit it for an advisory opinion to the body established by the League of Nations as the advisory and technical organisation of the Members of the League in matters of communications and transit, unless they have decided or shall decide by mutual agreement to have recourse to some other advisory, arbitral or judicial procedure.
 The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall not be applicable to any State which represents that the development of hydraulic power would be seriously detrimental to its national economy or security.
 Article 13.
 It is understood that this Convention must not be interpreted as regulating in any way rights and obligations inter se of territories forming part of or placed under the protection of the same sovereign State, whether or not these territories are individually Contracting States.
 Article 14.
 Nothing in the preceding articles is to be construed as affecting in any way the rights or duties of a Contracting State as Member of the League of Nations.
 Article 15.
 The present Convention, of which the French and English texts are both authentic, shall bear this day's date, and shall be open for signature until October 31, 1924, by any State represented at the Conference of Geneva, by any Member of the League of Nations and by any States to which the Council of the League of Nations shall have communicated a copy of the Convention for this purpose.
 Article 16.
 The present Convention is subject to ratification. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the League of Nations, who shall notify their receipt to every State signatory of or acceding to the Convention.
 Article 17.
 On and after November 1, 1924, the present Convention may be acceded to by any State represented at the Conference of Geneva, by any Member of the League of Nations, or by any State to which the Council of the League of Nations shall have communicated a copy of the Convention for this purpose.
 Accession shall be effected by an instrument communicated to the Secretary-General of the League of Nations to be deposited in the archives of the Secretariat. The Secretary-General shall at once notify such deposit to every State signatory of or acceding to the Convention.
 Article 18.
 The present Convention will not come into force until it has been ratified in the name of three States. The date of its coming into force shall be the ninetieth day after the receipt by the Secretary-General of the League of Nations of the third ratification. Thereafter, the present Convention will take effect in the case of each Party ninety days after the receipt of its ratification or of the notification of its accession.
 In compliance with the provisions of Article 18 of the Covenant of the League of Nations, the Secretary-General will register the present Convention upon the day of its coming into force.
 Article 19.
 A special record shall be kept by the Secretary-General of the League of Nations showing, with due regard to the provisions of Article 21, which of the Parties have signed, ratified, acceded to or denounced the present Convention. This record shall be open to the Members of the League at all times; it shall be published as often as possible, in accordance with the directions of the Council.
 Article 20.
 Subject to the provisions of Article II above, the present Convention may be denounced by any Party thereto after the expiration of five years from the date when it came into force in respect of that Party. Denunciation shall be effected by notification in writing addressed to the Secretary-General of the League of Nations. Copies of such notification shall be transmitted forthwith by him to all the other Parties, informing them of the date on which it was received.
 A denunciation shall take effect one year after the date on which the notification thereof was received by the Secretary-General and shall operate only in respect of the notifying State.
 Article 21.
 Any State signing or adhering to the present Convention may declare, at the moment either of its signature, ratification or accession, that its acceptance of the present Convention does not include any or all of its colonies, overseas possessions, protectorates, or overseas territories, under its sovereignty or authority, and may subsequently accede, in conformity with the provisions of Article 17, on behalf of any such colony, overseas possession, protectorate or territory excluded by such declaration.
 Denunciation may also be made separately in respect of any such colony, overseas possession, protectorate or territory, and the provisions of Article 20 shall apply to any such denunciation.
 Article 22.
 A request for the revision of the present Convention may be made at any time by one-third of the Contracting States.
 B. VOUKOVITCH 
 KINGDOM OF THE SERBS, CROATS AND SLOVENES
 PHYA SANPAKITCH PREECHA
 SIAM
 B. FERNANDEZ Y MEDINA
 URUGUAY 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

