
 Convention Between Denmark, Norway And Sweden Concerning The Preservation Of Plaice In The Skagerak, Kattegat And Sound   
     Filename: 1932-PreservationPlaiceSkagerakKattegat.EN.txt 
 Source: LNTS vol. CXXXIX (139), pp. 189(199).     
    ﻿Convention Between Denmark, Norway And Sweden Concerning The Preservation Of Plaice In The Skagerak, Kattegat And Sound
Source: LNTS vol. CXXXIX (139), pp. 189(199).
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF DENMARK AND ICELAND, HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF NORWAY
and HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF SWEDEN, having agreed to conclude a Convention between Denmark, Norway and Sweden, concerning the preservation of plaice in the Skagerak, Kattegat and Sound, have appointed for that purpose as their Plenipotentiaries:
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF DENMARK AND ICELAND:
Count Eduard Vilhelm Sophus Christian REVENTLOW, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary in Stockholm;
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF NORWAY:
M. Johan Herman WOLLEBÆK, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary in Stockholm;
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF SWEDEN:
H. E. M. Rickard Johannes SANDLER, Minister for Foreign Affairs;
Who, having received full powers for the purpose, have agreed on the following provisions:
Article I.
The provisions of the present Convention shall apply to:
The Skagerak, bounded on the west by a straight line from Hanstholm Lighthouse to Lindesnæs Lighthouse and on the south by straight lines drawn from the northernmost point of the Skaw to Vinga Lighthouse and thence to the nearest point on the Hisingen coast,
The Kattegat, bounded on the north by the Skaw and on the south by straight lines from Hasenöre to Gniben, and from Gilbjerg Hoved to Kullen Lighthouse,
The Sound, bounded on the north by a straight line from Gilbjerg Hoved to Kullen Lighthouse and on the south by a straight line from Stevn Lighthouse to Falsterbo Lighthouse.
Article 2.
With a view to the protection of plaice, the minimum length for such fish is fixed at 257 mm. counted from the tip of the snout to that of the caudal fin.
Article 3.
In the zone to which the Convention applies, plaice not being of the minimum length prescribed in Article 2 shall not be killed, kept on board, taken away or landed in ports or on the coasts of this zone, or transported thither by ship or ferry, or sold or transported thence elsewhere.
Article 4.
The Contracting States shall take suitable steps to ensure that their fishermen, when they have caught plaice of a length less than the minimum fixed, shall at once return them to the sea, taking the precautions necessary to ensure that they may remain alive.
Article 5.
The provisions of Articles 2, 3 and 4 shall not apply to plaice caught in the sheltered waters (indenskaers) of the Norwegian and Swedish coasts of the Skagerak and landed there for consumption by the fishermen themselves. Nor shall the said provisions apply to plaice of the minimum length referred to below, caught in the North Sea and landed within the periods fixed hereinafter on the Danish coast between the Tversted buoy and Hanstholm for immediate despatch abroad:
225 mm. from October 1st to the last day of February inclusive, and 240 mm. during the rest of the year.
Article 6.
The Contracting States undertake immediately to take the necessary measures to ensure the carrying out of the present Convention and to inform one another of the measures in question.
Article 7.
The present Convention abrogates Article II of the Declaration of October 5, 1907, whereby an addition and amendments were made to the Convention concluded between Denmark and Sweden on July 14, 1899, for the control of fisheries in the waters adjacent to Denmark and Sweden.
Article 8.
The present Convention shall be ratified and the instruments of ratification shall be deposited as soon as possible in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at Stockholm.
The Convention shall come into force one month after the deposit of instruments of ratification and shall remain in force until the expiration of six months from the day on which it shall have been denounced by one of the Contracting States.
In faith whereof the Plenipotentiaries of the various Contracting States have signed the present Convention and have thereto affixed their seals.
Done at Stockholm in one copy in Danish, Norwegian and Swedish, December 31, 1932.
(L. S.) (Signed) E. REVENTLOW. (L. S.) (Signed) J. H. WOLLEBÆK. (L. S.) (Signed) Rickard SANDLER.
FINAL PROTOCOL.
On signing this day the Convention concluded between Denmark, Norway and Sweden concerning the protection of plaice in the Skagerak, Kattegat and Sound, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries, in the name of their respective Governments, have made the following declarations:
1. The Contracting States agree that the Convention shall not prevent any of these States from prohibiting the landing in the country of plaice larger than those of the minimum size fixed by the Convention.
2. The Contracting States, thinking it desirable that the protection of plaice in the Skagerak, Kattegat and Sound should be rendered more effective by stricter provisions than those of the Convention, and proposing to undertake the necessary preliminaries for the purpose, have further agreed to enter upon negotiations to that end as soon as possible and at latest within three years of the coming into force of the present Convention.
Done at Stockholm in one copy in Danish, Norwegian and Swedish, December 31, 1932.
(L. S.) (Signed) E. REVENTLOW.
(L. S.) (Signed) J. H. WOLLEBÆK.
(L. S.) (Signed) Rickard SANDLER. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

