
 Convention Between Denmark, Norway And Sweden Concerning The Preservation Of Plaice And Dab In The Skagerrak, Kattegat And Sound   
     Filename: 1937-PreservationPlaiceDabSkagerrakKattegat.EN.txt 
 Source: LNTS vol. CLXXXVI (186), pp. 419 (429).     
    ﻿Convention Between Denmark, Norway And Sweden Concerning The Preservation Of Plaice And Dab In The Skagerrak, Kattegat And Sound
Source: LNTS vol. CLXXXVI (186), pp. 419 (429).
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF DENMARK AND ICELAND, HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF NORWAY, and HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF SWEDEN, having agreed to conclude a Convention between Denmark, Norway and Sweden concerning the preservation of plaice and dab in the Skagerrak, Kattegat and Sound, have appointed for that purpose as their Plenipotentiaries :
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF DENMARK AND ICELAND :
M. Henrik Louis Hans KAUFFMANN, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary in Oslo ;
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF NORWAY :
M. Halvdan KOHT, Minister for Foreign Affairs ;
HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF SWEDEN :
M. Torvald Magnusson HÖJER, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary in Oslo ;
Who, having received full powers for the purpose, have agreed on the following Articles :
Article I.
The provisions of the present Convention shall apply to :
The Skagerrak, bounded on the west by a straight line from Hanstholm Lighthouse to Lindesnaes Lighthouse, and on the south by straight lines drawn from the northern-most point of the Skaw to Vinga Lighthouse, and thence to the nearest point on the Hisingen coast ;
The Kattegat, bounded on the north by the Skagerrak, and on the south by straight lines from Hasenøre to Gniben, and from Gilbjerg Hoved to Kullen Lighthouse ;
The Sound, bounded on the north by a straight line from Gilbjerg Hoved to Kullen Lighthouse, and on the south by a straight line from Stevn Lighthouse to Falsterbo Lighthouse.
Article 2.
With a view to the protection of plaice and dab, the minimum length for plaice is fixed at 26o m /m and for dab at 230 m/m, counted from the tip of the snout to the tip of the caudal fin.
Article 3.
In the zone to which the Convention applies, plaice and dabs below the minimum length prescribed in Article 2 shall not be killed, kept on board, taken away or landed in ports or on the coasts of this zone, or transported thither by ship or ferry, or sold or transported thence elsewhere.
Article 4.
The contracting States shall take suitable steps to ensure that their fishermen, when they have caught plaice or dabs which are below the minimum size, shall at once return them to the sea, taking such precautions as are necessary to ensure that they may remain alive.
Article 5.
The provisions of Articles 2, 3 and 4 shall not apply to plaice and dabs caught between the islands of the Norwegian and Swedish coasts in the Skagerrak and landed there for consumption in the fishermens' own homes, or to plaice and dabs landed in Denmark on the open coast between the Tversted Buoy and Hanstholm for use as bait. The Danish provisions currently in force shall apply to plaice and dabs caught in the North Sea and landed on the Danish Coast between the Tversted Buoy and Hanstholm for direct transport abroad.
Article 6.
The contracting States undertake immediately to take the necessary measures to ensure the carrying out of the present Convention and to inform one another of the measures in question.
Article 7.
The present Convention abrogates the Convention of December 31st, 1932, between Denmark, Norway and Sweden, concerning the preservation of plaice in the Skagerrak, Kattegat and Sound.
Article 8.
The present Convention shall be ratified and the instruments of ratification shall be deposited as soon as possible in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at Oslo.
The Convention shall come into force one month after the deposit of instruments of ratification and shall remain in force until the expiration of six months from the day on which it has been denounced by one of the contracting States.
In faith whereof the Plenipotentiaries of the various contracting States have signed the present Convention and have thereto affixed their seals.
Done at Oslo in one copy, in Danish, Norwegian and Swedish, the 6th day of September, 1937.
(L. S.) Henrik KAUFFMANN. (L. S.) Halvdan KOHT. (L. S.) Torvald HÖJER.
FINAL PROTOCOL.
On signing this day the Convention concluded between Denmark, Norway and Sweden, concerning the preservation of plaice and dab in the Skagerrak, Kattegat and Sound, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries, in the name of their respective Governments, have made the following declarations :
(I) The contracting States agree that the Convention shall not prevent any of these States from prohibiting the landing in the country of plaice and dabs of a larger size than the minimum fixed by the Convention.
(2) The contracting States think it desirable that greater protection should be given to fish in the Skagerrak, Kattegat and Sound, and they propose to carry out the necessary preliminary work for the purpose and have therefore further agreed to enter upon negotiations to that end as soon as may be found necessary, and at latest within three years of the coming into force of the present Convention.
Done at Oslo in one copy, in Danish, Norwegian and Swedish, the 6th day of September, 1937.
Henrik KAUFFMANN. Halvdan KOHT. Torvald HÖJER. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

