
 Supplementary Protocol Regarding The Entry Into Force Of The 1945 Protocol To The 1937 International Agreement For The Regulation Of Whaling   
     Filename: 1947-SupplementaryProtocol-1937-Whaling.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.worldlii.org/au/other/dfat/treatie/1947/9.html     
    ﻿Supplementary Protocol Regarding The Entry Into Force Of The 1945 Protocol To The International Agreement For The Regulation Of Whaling
Source: http://www.worldlii.org/au/other/dfat/treatie/1947/9.html
The Governments of the Union of South Africa, the Commonwealth of Australia, Canada, Denmark, France, New Zealand, Norway, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
HAVING ratified or acceded to the Protocol signed in London on 26 November 1945 (hereinafter called "the Protocol"), amending the International Agreement for the Regulation of Whaling signed in London on 8 June 1937, as amended by the Protocols of 24 June 1938 and 7 February 1944;
CONSIDERING that it is provided under paragraph (i) of Article VIII of the Protocol that the Protocol shall come into force in its entirety when all the Governments referred to in the preamble of the Protocol shall have deposited their instruments of ratification or given notification of accession;
CONSIDERING further that ratifications or accessions have been deposited on behalf of all the Governments referred to in the preamble of the Protocol with the exception of the Governments of Mexico and the Netherlands; and
DESIRING that the Protocol should be brought into force in its entirety without awaiting ratification by the Governments of Mexico and the Netherlands;
HAVE DECIDED to conclude a Supplementary Protocol for this purpose and have agreed as follows:
Article I
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (i) of Article VIII of the Protocol, the Protocol shall, on the signature of the present Supplementary Protocol, come into force with respect to Governments signing the present Supplementary Protocol immediately upon signature by them.
Article II
The present Supplementary Protocol shall bear the date on which it is opened for signature and shall remain open for signature for a period of 14 days thereafter.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Undersigned, duly authorised by their respective Governments, have signed the present Supplementary Protocol, done in London this 3rd day of March, 1947, in a single copy, which shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the United Kingdom and of which certified copies shall be transmitted to all the signatory Governments.
[Ed.: Signatures not reproduced here.] 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

