
 International Convention For The Permanent Control Of Outbreak Areas Of The Red Locust   
     Filename: 1949-PermanentControlOutbreakAreasRedLocust.EN.txt 
 Source: Ruster and Simma, Volume IV: page 177ff.     
    ﻿International Convention For The Permanent Control Of Outbreak Areas Of The Red Locust
Source: Ruster and Simma, Volume IV: page 177ff.
The Governments of Belgium, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Union of South Africa and Southern Rhodesia, wishing to improve and extend the International Organisation provisionally established to carry out the recommendations of the 5th International Anti-Locust Conference held at Brussels on 1st September, 1938, with a view to preventing outbreaks of the Red Locust, and considering that the time has come to give effect to the suggestions made by experts of the countries primarily concerned at their meetings at Lusaka in September, 1945, and June, 1947, have agreed as follows:
Article I
(a) An International Council for the Control of the Red Locust (hereinafter referred to as the Council) shall be established and shall be composed of representatives of the Governments of the following territories:
(1) the Union of South Africa;
(2) Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika Territory, Nyasaland, Northern Rhodesia, and the British High Commission Territories in South Africa (Basutoland, Bechuanaland Protectorate and Swaziland);
(3) the Belgian Congo and Ruanda Urundi;
(4) Southern Rhodesia.
To the above-mentioned shall be added any other territory or territories to which the present Convention may be applied under Article IX or Article X.
(b) The Governments mentioned above are hereinafter referred to as the Participating Governments.
(c) The seat of the Council shall be at Abercorn in Northern Rhodesia.
Article II
In order to carry out research on the Red Locust and to decide on and carry out adequate methods of combat, an International Service for the Control of the Red Locust (hereinafter referred to as the Control Service) shall be established by the Council.
Article III
(a) Each of the Participating Governments shall appoint one representative to the Council; provided, however, that the three British High Commission Territories in South Africa shall have one representative between them to represent these three territories.
(b) Each representative shall be entitled to a number of votes proportionate to the total annual financial contribution of his Government; provided that the representative of the three British High Commission Territories in South Africa shall be entitled to a number of votes proportionate to the total annual financial contribution of the three territories;
(c) The Anti-Locust Research Centre shall be represented on the Council by a representative in a consultative capacity.
(d) The Council may invite the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations to appoint observers to attend the meetings of the Council.
Article IV
(a) The Council shall elect from among its members a President to hold office for one year. It shall have authority to appoint or dismiss the Secretary of the Council, the Director, the Secretary-Accountant and the scientific and technical personnel of the Control Service, and to determine their conditions of service.
(b) The Council shall meet in ordinary session each year in the month of June or July. Extraordinary meetings of the Council may be convened by the President or at the request of a majority of the Participating Governments.
(c) The Director of the Control Service shall forward each year, one month before the date fixed for the next meeting of the Council, his annual report to the Council. This shall be examined during the annual meeting of the Council.
(d) The Council shall at its annual meeting adopt the plans and estimates for the operations of the Control Service for the following Control year (beginning on the 1st July, of the current calendar year and ending on the 30th June of the following calendar year).
(e) The Council shall make its own rules of procedure, and shall have power to appoint an Executive Committee to carry out its decisions.
Article V
a) The functions of the Control Service are as follows:
(1) To organise the permanent control of known outbreak areas of the Red Locust and the investigation of regions suspected of being sources of origin of the Red Locust.
(2) To take steps for the immediate destruction of any incipient swarms of Red Locusts discovered in recognised outbreak areas.
(3) To organise, in collaboration with the Participating Governments, a Central Information Service on the movements and breeding of swarms of Red Locusts which might have spread outside the outbreak areas
(4) To keep the Participating Governments and the Anti-Locust Research Centre informed of the Red Locust situation and of the progress of the operations of the Control Service by means of periodical reports.
(5) To study the habits and the ecology of the Red Locust and the methods for its control.
(b) The Director of the Control Service shall engage all personnel of the Control Service, other than those whom the Council is authorised to appoint in accordance with Article IV (a).
Article VI
(a) The ordinary annual expenses of the Council and Control Service shall be covered by contributions, of the Participating Governments in the proportion of 12 per cent. for Southern Rhodesia, 16 per cent. for the Belgian
Congo, 8 per cent, for Ruanda-Urundi, 28 per cent. for the Union of South Africa and 36 per cent. for all the remaining Governments.
(b) The apportionment of contributions shall be reviewed by the Council in the event of any other Government becoming a participating Government in accordance with Articles IX or X.
(c) Each Participating Government shall have the option of paying its share of the annual expenses in cash or in kind, either by providing quarters or transport or by paying its own personnel seconded to the Control Service, with the agreement of the Council or of the Director of the Control Service.
Article VII
(a) The Secretary of the Council shall be entrusted with the collection of the contributions of the Participating Governments, as well as the keeping of the accounts of the Control Service.
(b) The Government of Northern Rhodesia shall audit the annual accounts of the Service and submit them to the Council. These accounts, when approved by the Council, shall be forwarded to the Participating Governments.
Article VIII
For the carrying out of anti-locust operations in territories to which the present Convention applies, each Participating Government shall
(a) accord such facilities to members of the Control Service, in the matter of customs and passports, as may be required to enable them to carry out their official duties; and
(b) give all possible assistance, other than financial assistance, required by the Control Service for destroying incipient swarms of Red Locusts.
Article IX
Any Contracting Government may at any time propose that the present Convention shall be extended to one or more of its territories other than those mentioned in Article I or in any notification made under Article X, and with the approval of the Council the Government of that territory shall become a Participating Government for the purposes of the present Convention.
Article X
(a) Any Government which is not a signatory to the present Convention may be invited by the Council to accede thereto, subject to such conditions as the Contracting Governments may determine. Notification of accession shall be made to the Government of the United Kingdom and shall state the territory or territories to which the accession applies.
(b) The Government of the United Kingdom shall inform the other Contracting Governments of all notifications received under this Article.
Article XI
(a) The present Convention shall be ratified by the signatory Governments and the instruments of ratification shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
(b) The present Convention shall enter into force as on the date of the receipt by the Government of the United Kingdom of the second instrument of ratification. It shall take effect in respect of those Governments who ratify or accede subsequently on the date of the deposit of the ratification or notification of accession. The present Convention shall remain in force for a period of ten years after its initial entry into force.
(c) At any time after the expiration of this period
(1) Any Contracting Government may denounce the Convention by written notification to the Government of the United Kingdom. Such denunciation shall take effect one year after the date of receipt of the notification by the Government of the United Kingdom.
(2) Any Contracting Government may notify the Government of the United Kingdom that the Convention shall cease to apply to one or more of its territories, and it shall cease to apply to the territory or territories named in the notification one year after the date of the receipt of the notification by the Government of the United Kingdom.
(d) The Government of the United Kingdom shall inform each of the Contracting Governments of each notification received under this Article and of the date of its receipt.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Undersigned have signed the present Convention in the English and French languages both texts being equally authentic, and have affixed thereto their seals.
DONE in London the 22nd day of February, 1949, in a single copy which shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, by whom certified copies shall be furnished to all the signatory and acceding Governments and to all the Participating Governments.
For the Government of Belgium:
[L. S.] Obert DE THIEUSIES For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: [L. S.] Hector MCNEIL For the Government of the Union of South Africa: [L. S.] C. H. TORRANCE For the Government of Southern Rhodesia: [L. S.] A. D. CHATAWAY 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

