
 Amendments To The Schedule To The International Convention For The Regulation Of Whaling, Second Meeting   
     Filename: 1950-AmendmentsScheduleM2-1946-Whaling.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/1950/15.html     
    ﻿Amendments To Paragraphs 6, 8(C), 8(D) And 8(E) Of The Schedule To The International Convention For The Regulation Of Whaling Of 2 December 1946
Source: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/1950/15.html, 20051220
[Adopted at the second meeting of the International Whaling Commission. The Amendment entered into force ... generally 1 November 1950.]
(a) Paragraph 6 of the Schedule shall read as follows:
"6. It is forbidden to use a factory ship or a whale catcher attached thereto for the purpose of taking or treating humpback whales in any waters south of 40° South Latitude; provided that, in the pelagic whaling season 1950-51 a maximum of 1,250 humpback whales may be taken in these waters commencing on February 1."
(b) Paragraph 8(c) of the Schedule shall read as follows:
"8. (c) Notification shall be given in accordance with Article VII of the Convention, within two days after the end of each calendar week, of data on the number of blue-whale units taken in any waters south of 40° South Latitude by all whale catchers attached to factory ships under the jurisdiction of each Contracting Government; and in addition notification of data on the number of humpback whales taken in pursuance of paragraph 6 shall be given at the end of each day."
(c) Paragraph 8(d) shall read as follows:
"8. (d) If it should appear that the maximum catch of whales permitted by sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph may be reached before 7 April of any year, the Commission, or such other body as the Commission may designate, shall determine on the basis of the data provided, the date on which the maximum catch of whales shall be deemed to have been reached and shall notify each Contracting Government of that date not less than two weeks in advance thereof. The taking of baleen whales by whale catchers attached to factory ships shall be illegal in any waters south of 40° South Latitude after midnight of the date so determined."
(d) Existing paragraph 8(e) shall be redesignated as paragraph 8(f) and a new sub-paragraph (e) shall be inserted as follows:
"8. (e) On the basis of data on number of humpback whales taken in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 and reported in accordance with sub-paragraph 8(c), the Commission, or such other body as the Commission may designate, shall determine the date on which the maximum catch of humpback whales shall be deemed to have been reached and shall notify each factory ship and each Contracting Government four days in advance thereof. The taking of humpback whales in all waters south of 40° South Latitude shall be illegal after midnight of the date so determined." 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

