
 Amendments To The Schedule To The International Convention For The Regulation Of Whaling, Third Meeting   
     Filename: 1951-AmendmentsScheduleM3-1946-Whaling.EN.txt 
 Source: UNTS vol. 177, pp. 396.     
    ﻿Amendments To The Schedule To The Above-Mentioned Convention
Source: UNTS vol. 177, pp. 396.
INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FISHERIES DEPARTMENT
St. Stephen's House, Victoria Embankment, London, S. W. I.
19 Nov. 1951
Chairman:
Professor B. BERGERSEN (Norway)
Vice-Chairman:
Dr. REMINGTON KELLOGG (U.S.A.)
Secretary:
A. T. A. DOBSON (U. K.)
Telephone: WHItehall 3201 Our Ref. AS.III
CIRCULAR LETTER TO ALL CONTRACTING GOVERNMENTS
ALTERATIONS TO THE SCHEDULE
Sir,
I beg to refer to my circular on the above subject dated 9th August, 1951 and numbered as above, and to remind you that the 90 day period referred to in Article V of the International Whaling Convention of 1946 was deemed to expire at midnight (2400 hours) on Saturday, 17th November, 1951 (vide penultimate paragraph of my circular referred to).
On November 13th I received an objection from the Government of Australia to the proposed amendment, subparagraph 10 (c) (relating to sperm whales) in the list of amendments to the Schedule which accompanied my letter of 9th August, 1951, as amended by my circulars of 3rd September and 24th September, 1951. No other objections have been received to any of the other amendments referred to. The position is, therefore, as follows:
The amendments referred to accordingly automatically came into force as from November 18th, 1951, with the sole exception of subparagraph 10 (c) (relating to sperm whales) to which the Australian objection has been directed.
Under Article V (3) of the International Whaling Convention of 1946 already referred to, the subparagraph 10 (c) cannot become effective until the expiration of a further period of 90 days which shall be deemed to have expired on 20th February, 1952 to allow for postal delays.
A further communication will be addressed to you with regard to this particular amendment, as soon as the further 90 day period has expired.
In the meantime a further copy of all the amendments (including the one, 10 (c), objected to) is enclosed for your convenience.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
A. T. A. DOBSON
Secretary to the Commission
The Hon. The Secretary of State of the United States
INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION
INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION FOR THE REGULATION OF WHALING, 1946
LIST OF THE AMENDMENTS TO THE SCHEDULE TO THE CONVENTION MADE BY THE INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION AT THEIR THIRD MEETING HELD AT CAPE TOWN IN JULY, 1951
1) Paragraph 6
The words " for baleen whales 1952 " shall be substituted for the figures " 1950/51 ". The whole paragraph will therefore read:
" It is forbidden to use a factory ship or a whale catcher attached thereto for the purpose of taking or treating humpback whales in any waters south of 40° South Latitude; provided that in the pelagic whaling season for baleen whales 1952 a maximum of 1250 humpback whales may be taken in these waters commencing on February 1st."
2) Paragraph 7
In subparagraph (a) the words " 2nd January" shall he substituted for the words " 22nd December." The whole subparagraph will therefore read:-
" It is forbidden to use a factory ship or a whale catcher attached thereto for the purpose of taking or treating baleen whales in any waters south of 40° South Latitude, except during the period from 2nd January, to 7th April following, both days inclusive."
3) Paragraph 7 (continued)
The present subparagraph (b) shall be re-designated subparagraph (c) and a new subparagraph (b) shall be inserted as follows:
" (b) Each Contracting Government shall declare for all factory ships and whale catchers attached thereto under its jurisdiction, one continuous open season not to exceed eight months out of any period of twelve months during which the taking or treating of sperm whales by factory ships may be permitted; provided that a separate open season may be declared for each factory ship ".
4) Paragraph 8
In subparagraph (c) after the words " in pursuance of paragraph 6 ", there shall be inserted the words " including nil returns on days when no humpback whales are taken ".
In subparagraph (e) of the same paragraph the words " three days" shall be substituted for the existing words "four days" in the sixth line.
5) Paragraph 9
The first subparagraph shall be cancelled, and the following subparagraphs containing some new matter shall be substituted:
" 9 (a) It is forbidden to take or kill any blue, sei or humpback whales below the following lengths: -
Blue whales 70 feet (21.3 metres)
Sei whales 40 feet (12.2 metres)
Humpback whales 35 feet (10.7 metres)
except that blue whales of not less than 65 feet (19.8 metres) and sei whales of not less than 35 feet (10.7 metres) in length may be taken for delivery to land stations, provided that the meat of such whales is to be used for local consumption as human or animal food.
(b) It is forbidden to take or kill any fin whales below 60 feet (18.3 metres) in length for delivery to factory ships or land stations in the Southern Hemisphere, and it is forbidden to take or kill fin whales below 55 feet (16.8 metres) for delivery to factory ships or land stations in the Northern Hemisphere; except that fin whales of not less than 55 feet (16.8 metres) may be taken for delivery to land stations in the Southern Hemisphere and fin whales of not less than 50 feet (15.2 metres) may be taken for delivery to land stations in the Northern Hemisphere provided in each case that the meat of such whales is to be used for local consumption as human or animal food.
(c) It is forbidden to take or kill any sperm whales below 38 feet (11.6 metres) in length, except that sperm whales of not less than 35 feet (10.7 metres) in length may be taken for delivery to land stations."
The existing second subparagraph of paragraph 9 beginning " Whales must be measured " shall be numbered (d).
6) Paragraph 10
This shall read as follows, new matter in existing subparagraphs being underlined, and subparagraphs (c) and (d) being new:
" 10 (a) It is forbidden to use a land station under the jurisdiction of a Contracting Government, and whale catchers attached to such land station, for the taking or treating of baleen and sperm whales, except as permitted by the Contracting Government in accordance with subparagraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this paragraph.
(b) Each Contracting Government shall declare for all land stations under its jurisdiction, and whale catchers attached to such land stations, one open season during which the taking or treating of baleen (excluding minke) whales shall be permitted. Such open season shall be for a period of not more than six consecutive months in any period of twelve months and shall apply to all land stations under the jurisdiction of a Contracting Government, provided that a separate open season may be declared for any land station used for the taking or treating of baleen (excluding minke) whales which is more than 1000 miles from the nearest land station used for the taking or treating of baleen (excluding minke) whales under the jurisdiction of the same Contracting Government.
(c) Each Contracting Government shall declare for all land stations under its jurisdiction and for whale catchers attached to such land stations, one open season not to exceed eight continuous months in any one period of twelve months, during which the taking or treating of sperm whales shall be permitted, such period of eight months to include the whole of the period of six months declared for baleen whales as provided for in subparagraph (b) above; provided that a separate open season may be declared for any land station used for the taking or treating of sperm whales which is more than 1000 miles from the nearest land station used for the taking or treating of sperm whales under the jurisdiction of the same Contracting Government.
(d) Each Contracting Government shall declare for all land stations under its jurisdiction and for all whale catchers one open season not to exceed six continuous months in any period of twelve months during which the taking or treating of minke whales shall be permitted, (such period not being necessarily concurrent with the period declared for other baleen whales, as provided for in sub-paragraph (b) above);
provided that a separate open season may be declared for any land station used for the taking or treating of minke whales which is more than 1000 miles from the nearest land station used for the taking or treating of minke whales under the jurisdiction of the same Contracting Government.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this paragraph, the treatment of whales which have been taken during an open season may be completed after the end of such open season.
(f) The prohibitions contained in this paragraph shall apply to all land stations as defined in Article 11 of the Whaling Convention of 1946 and to all factory ships which are subject to the regulations governing the operation of land stations under the provisions of paragraph 17 of this Schedule."
7) Paragraph 12
In subparagraph (a), after the opening words " all whales " shall be inserted the words " (except minke whales) ".
8) Paragraph 13
This shall be omitted and the following new paragraph 13 shall be substituted, new matter being underlined:
" 13 (a) The taking of whales for delivery to a factory ship shall be so regulated or restricted by the master or person in charge of the factory ship that no whale carcass (except of a whale used as a fender, which shall be processed as soon as is reasonably practicable) shall remain in the sea for a longer period than thirty-three hours from the time of killing to the time when it is hauled up for treatment.
(b) Whales taken by all whale catchers, whether for factory ships or land stations, shall be clearly marked so as to identify the catcher and to indicate the order of catching.
(c) All whale catchers operating in conjunction with a factory ship shall report by radio to the factory ship:
(1) The time when each whale is taken,
(2) its species, and
(3) its marking effected pursuant to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph.
(d) The information reported by radio pursuant to subparagraph (c) of this paragraph shall be entered immediately in a permanent record which shall be available at all times for examination by the whaling inspectors; and in addition there shall be entered in such permanent record the following information as soon as it becomes available:
(1) time of hauling up for treatment,
(2) length, measured pursuant to subparagraph (d) of paragraph 9,
(3) sex,
(4) if female, whether milk filled or lactating,
(5) length and sex of foetus, if present, and
(6) a full explanation of each infraction.
(e) A record similar to that described in subparagraph (d) of this paragraph shall be maintained by land stations, and all of the information mentioned in the said subparagraph shall be entered therein as soon as available."
9) Paragraph 18
This paragraph shall be omitted and the following new revised clause 18 shall be substituted for it:
" 18. The following expressions have the meanings respectively assigned to them, that is to say:
' baleen whale ' means any whale which has baleen or whale bone in the mouth, i. e. any whale other than a toothed whale.
` blue whale ' (Balaenoptera or Sibbaldus musculus) means any whale known by the name of blue whale, Sibbald's rorqual, or sulphur bottom,
` dauhval ' means any unclaimed dead whale found floating,
' fin whale ' (Balaenoptera physalus) means any whale known by the name of common finback, common rorqual, finback, finner, fin whale, herring whale, razor-back, or true fin whale,
` gray whale ' (Rhachianectes glaucus) means any whale known by the name of gray whale, California gray, devil fish, hard head, mussel digger, gray back or rip sack,
` humpback whale ' (Megaptera nodosa or novaeangliae) means any whale known by the name of bunch, humpback, humpback whale, humpbacked whale, hump whale or hunchbacked whale,
` minke whale' (Balaenoptera acutorostrata, B. davidsoni, B. huttoni) means any whale known by the name of lesser rorqual, little piked whale, minke whale, pike-headed whale or sharp headed finner,
` right whale ' (Balaena mysticetus; Eubalaena glacialis, E. australis, etc.; Neobalaena marginata) means any whale known by the name of Atlantic right whale, Arctic right whale, Biscayan right whale, bowhead, great polar whale, Greenland right whale, Greenland whale, Nordkaper, North Atlantic right whale, North Cape whale, Pacific right whale, pigmy right whale, Southern pigmy right whale, or Southern right whale,
' sei whale ' (Balaenoptera borealis) means any whale known by the name of sei whale, Rudolphi's rorqual, pollack whale, or coalfish whale and shall be taken to include Bryde's whale (B. brydei),
' sperm whale ' (Physeter catodon) means any whale known by the name of sperm whale, spermacet whale, cachalot, or pot whale,
' toothed whale' means any whale which has teeth in the jaws."
I hereby certify that the preceding list is a true copy of the amendments to the Schedule to the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling, 1946, made by the International Whaling Commission at their Third Meeting, at Cape Town, in July, 1951. These amendments were communicated to each Contracting Government in a circular dated 9th August, 1951 (as amended by circulars dated 3rd September and 24th September, 1951). The 90 days referred to in Article V of the 1946 Convention was deemed to have expired at midnight (24 hours) on 17th November, 1951 and the only objection received was one by the Australian Government, to the inclusion of subparagraph 10 (c) relating to an open season for sperm whales. Accordingly, all the amendments, with the exception of 10 (c), came into operation as from 18th November, 1951, but 10 (c) cannot become effective with respect to any Contracting Government, until the expiration of a further 90 days, which will be deemed to have taken place on 20th February, 1952.
A. T. A. DOBSON
Secretary to the Commission
19th November, 1951.
INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FISHERIES DEPARTMENT
St. Stephen's House, Victoria Embankment, London, S. W. I.
21 February 1952
Chairman:
Professor B. BERGERSEN (Norway)
Vice-Chairman:
Dr. REMINGTON KELLOGG (U.S.A.)
Secretary:
A. T. A. DOBSON (U.K.)
Telephone: WHItehall 3201 Our Ref. AS.III
CIRCULAR LETTER TO ALL CONTRACTING GOVERNMENTS
ALTERATIONS TO THE SCHEDULE
Sir,
I beg to refer to my circular on the above subject, dated 19th November, 1951, and to remind you that the further 90 day period referred to therein (Article V of the International Whaling Convention of 1946) was deemed to expire on 20th February 1952 (vide fourth paragraph of the circular in question).
I am now to inform you that, during the 90 day period referred to, no objection has been received from any other Contracting Government to subparagraph 10 (c) of the amendments to the Schedule made by the Commission at their meeting at Cape Town. On the other hand, the Government of Australia has not been able to withdraw its objection. It follows, therefore, that the new subparagraph 10 (c) is now binding as from the date of this letter, upon all Contracting Governments, with the exception of Australia.
A fresh copy of the Convention, with the Schedule showing the amendments made at the third meeting, and with the necessary revision of the Index is with the Printers and will be distributed as soon as possible.
A copy of this letter is being sent to each Commissioner.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
A. T. A. DOBSON
Secretary to the Commission The Hon. The Secretary of State 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

