
 International Plant Protection Convention   
     Filename: 1951-InternationalPlantProtection.EN.txt 
 Source: https://www.ippc.int/servlet/BinaryDownloaderServlet/13767_1952_English.pdf?file…     
    ﻿INTERNATIONAL PLANT PROTECTION CONVENTION
SRC: https://www.ippc.int/servlet/BinaryDownloaderServlet/13767_1952_English....
PREAMBLE
The contracting Governments, recognizing the usefulness of international co-operation in controlling pests and diseases of plants and plant products and in preventing their introduction and spread across national boundaries, and desiring to ensure close co-ordination of measures directed to these ends, have agreed as follows:
Article I PURPOSE AND RESPONSIBILITY
1. With the purpose of securing common and effective action to prevent the introduction and spread of pests and diseases of plants and plant products and to promote measures for their control, the contracting Governments undertake to adopt the legislative, technical and administrative measures specified in this Convention and in supplementary agreements pursuant to Article III.
2. Each contracting Government shall assume responsibility for the fulfillment within its territories of all requirements under this Convention.
Article II SCOPE
1. For the purposes of this Convention the term "plant" shall comprise living plants and parts thereof, including seeds in so far as the supervision of their importation under Article VI of the Convention or the issue of phytosanitary certificates in respect of them under Articles IV( 1), (a) (iv) and V of this Convention may be deemed necessary by contracting Governments; and the term "plant products" shall comprise unmanufactured and milled material of plant origin, including seeds in so far as they are not included in the term "plants".
2. The provisions of this Convention may be deemed by contracting Governments to extend to storage places, containers, conveyances, packing material and accompanying media of all sorts including soil involved in the international transportation of plants and plant products.
3. This Convention shall have particular reference to pests and diseases of importance to international trade.
Article III SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENTS
1. Supplementary agreements applicable to specific regions, to specific pests and diseases, to specific plants and plant products, to specific methods of international transportation of plants and plant products, or otherwise supplementing the provisions of this Convention, may be proposed by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (hereinafter referred to as "FAO") on the recommendation of a contracting Government or on its own initiative, to meet special problems of plant protection which need particular attention or action.
2. Any such supplementary agreements shall come into force for each contracting Government after acceptance in accordance with the provisions of the FAO Constitution and Rules of Procedure.
Article IV NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR PLANT PROTECTION
1. Each contracting Government shall make provision, as soon as possible and to the best of its ability, for
a) an official plant protection organization, with the following main functions:
(i) the inspection of growing plants, of areas under cultivation (including fields, plantations, nurseries, gardens and greenhouses), and of plants and plant products in storage and in transportation particularly with the object of reporting the existence, outbreak and spread of plant diseases and pests and of controlling those pests and diseases;
(ii) the inspection of consignments of plants and plant products moving in international traffic and, as far as practicable, the inspection of consignments of other articles or commodities moving in international traffic under conditions where they may act incidentally as carriers of pests and diseases of plants and plant products, and the inspection and supervision of storage and transportation facilities of all kinds involved in international traffic whether of plants and plant products or of other commodities, particularly with the object of preventing the dissemination across national boundaries of pests and diseases of plants and plant products;
(iii) the disinfestation or disinfection of consignments of plants and plant products moving in international traffic, and their containers, storage places, or transportation facilities of all kinds employed; (iv) the issue of certificates relating to phytosanitary condition and origin of consignments of plants and plant products (hereinafter referred to as "phytosanitary certificates");
b) the distribution of information within the country regarding the pests and diseases of plants and plant products and the means of their prevention and control; c) research and investigation in the field of plant protection.
2. Each contracting Government shall submit a description of the scope of its national organization for plant protection and of changes in such organization to the Director-General of FAO, who shall circulate such information to all contracting Governments.
Article V PHYTOSANITARY CERTIFICATES
1. Each contracting Government shall make arrangements for the issue of phytosanitary certificates to accord with the plant protection regulations of other contracting Governments, and in conformity with the following provisions:
a) Inspection shall be carried out and certificate issued only by or under the authority of technically qualified and duly authorized officers and in such circumstances and with such knowledge and information available to those officers that the authorities of importing countries may accept such certificates with confidence as dependable documents.
b) Each certificate covering materials intended for planting or propagation shall be as worded in the Annex to this Convention and shall include such additional declarations as may be required by the importing country. The model certificate may also be used for other plants or plant products where appropriate and not inconsistent with the requirements of the importing country.
c) The certificates shall bear no alterations or erasures.
2. Each contracting Government undertakes not to require consignments of plants intended for planting or propagation imported into its territories to be accompanied by phytosanitary certificates inconsistent with the model set out in the Annex to this Convention.
Article VI REQUIREMENTS IN RELATION TO IMPORTS
1. With the aim of preventing the introduction of diseases and pests of plants into their territories, contracting Governments shall have full authority to regulate the entry of plants and plant products, and to this end, may:
a) prescribe restrictions or requirements concerning the importation of plants or plant products;
b) prohibit the importation of particular plants or plant products, or of particular consignments of plants or plant products;
c) inspect or detain particular consignments of plants or plant products; d) treat, destroy or refuse entry to particular consignments of plants or plant products, or require such consignments to be treated or destroyed.
2. In order to minimize interference with international trade, each contracting Government undertakes to carry out the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article in conformity with the following:
a) Contracting Governments shall not, under this plant protection legislation, take any of the measures specified in paragraph 1 of this Article unless such measures are made necessary by phytosanitary considerations.
b) If a contracting Government prescribes any restrictions or requirements concerning the importation of plants and plant products into its territories, it shall publish the restrictions or requirements and communicate them immediately to the plant protection services of other contracting Governments and to FAO.
c) If a contracting Government prohibits, under the provisions of its plant protection legislation, the importation of any plants or plant products, it shall publish its decision with reasons and shall immediately inform the plant protection services of other contracting Governments and FAO.
d) If a contracting Government requires consignment of particular products to be imported only through specified points of entry, such points shall be so selected as not unnecessarily to impede international commerce. The contracting Government shall publish a list of such points of entry and communicate it to the plant protection services of other contracting Governments and to FAO. Such restrictions on points of entry shall not be made unless the plants or plant products concerned are required to be accompanied by phytosanitary certificates or to be submitted to inspection or treatment.
e) Any inspection by the plant protection service of a contracting Government of consignments of plants offered for importation shall take place as promptly as possible with due regard to the perishability of the plants concerned. If any consignment is found not to conform to the requirements of the plant protection legislation of the importing country, the plant protection service of the exporting country shall be informed. If the consignment is destroyed, in whole or in part, an official report shall be forwarded immediately to the plant protection service of the exporting country.
f) Contracting Governments shall make provisions which, without endangering their own plant production, will reduce to a minimum the number of cases in which a phytosanitary certificate is required on the entry of plants or plant products not intended for planting, such as cereals, fruits, vegetables and cut flowers.
g) Contracting Governments may make provision for the importation for purposes of scientific research of plants and plant products and of specimens of plant pests and disease-causing organisms under conditions affording ample precaution against the risk of spreading plant diseases and pests.
3. The measures specified in this Article shall not be applied to goods in transit throughout the territories of contracting Governments unless such measures are necessary for the protection of their own plants.
Article VII INTERNATIONAL CO-OPERATION
The contracting Governments shall co-operate with one another to the fullest practicable extent in achieving the aims of this Convention, in particular as follows:
a) Each contracting Government agrees to co-operate with FAO in the establishment of a world reporting service on plant diseases and pests, making full use of the facilities and services of existing organizations for this purpose, and, when this is established, to furnish to FAO periodically the following information:
(i) reports on the occurrence, outbreak and spread of economically important pests and diseases of plants and plant products which may be of immediate or potential danger;
(ii) information on means found to be effective in controlling the pests and diseases of plants and plant products.
b) Each contracting Government shall, as far as is practicable, participate in any special campaigns for combating particular destructive pests or diseases which may seriously threaten crop production and need international action to meet the emergencies.
Article VIII REGIONAL PLANT PROTECTION ORGANIZATION
1. The contracting Governments undertake to co-operate with one another in establishing regional plant protection organizations in appropriate areas.
2. The regional plant protection organizations shall function as the co-ordinating bodies in the areas covered and shall participate in various activities to achieve the objectives of this Convention.
Article IX SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
1. If there is any dispute regarding the interpretation or application of this Convention, or if a contracting Government considers that any action by another contracting Government is in conflict with the obligations of the latter under Articles V and VI of this Convention, especially regarding the basis of prohibiting or restricting the imports of plants or plant products coming from its territories, the Government or Governments concerned may request the Director-General of FAO to appoint a committee to consider the question in dispute.
2. The Director-General of FAO shall thereupon, after consultation with the Governments concerned, appoint a committee of experts which shall include representatives of those Governments. This committee shall consider the question in dispute, taking into account all documents and other forms of evidence submitted by the Governments concerned. This committee shall submit a report to the Director-General of FAO who shall transmit it to the Governments concerned, and to other contracting Governments. 3. The contracting Governments agree that the recommendations of such a committee, while not binding in character, will become the basis for renewed consideration by the Governments concerned of the matter out of which the disagreement arose. 4. The Governments concerned shall share equally the expenses of the experts.
Article X SUBSTITUTION OF PRIOR AGREEMENTS
This Convention shall terminate and replace, between contracting Governments, the International Convention respecting measures to be taken against the Phylloxera vastatrix of 3 November 1881, the additional Convention signed at Berne on 15 April 1889 and the International Convention for the Protection of Plants signed at Rome on 16 April 1929.
Article XI TERRITORIAL APPLICATION
1. Any Government may at the time of ratification or adherence or at any time thereafter communicate to the Director-General of FAO a declaration that this Convention shall extend to all or any of the territories for the international relations of which it is responsible, and this Convention shall be applicable to all territories specified in the declaration as from the thirtieth day after the receipt of the declaration by the Director-General.
2. Any Government which has communicated to the Director-General of FAO a declaration in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article may at any time communicate a further declaration modifying the scope of any former declaration or terminating the application of the provisions of the present Convention in respect of any territory. Such modification or termination shall take effect as from the thirtieth day after the receipt of the declaration by the Director-General.
3. The Director-General of FAO shall inform all signatory and adhering Governments of any declaration received under this Article.
Article XII RATIFICATION AND ADHERENCE
1. This Convention shall be open for signature by all Governments until 1 May 1952 and shall be ratified at the earliest possible date. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Director-General of FAO, who shall give notice of the date of deposit to each of the signatory Governments.
2. As soon as this Convention has come into force in accordance with Article XIV, it shall be open for adherence by non-signatory Governments. Adherence shall be affected by the deposit of an instrument of adherence with the Director-General of FAO, who shall notify all signatory and adhering Governments.
Article XIII AMENDMENT
1. Any proposal by a contracting Government for the amendment of this Convention shall be communicated to the Director-General of FAO.
2. Any proposal amendment of this Convention received by the Director-General of FAO from a contracting Government shall be presented to a regular or special session of the Conference of FAO for approval and, if the amendment involves important technical changes or imposes additional obligations on the contracting Governments, it shall be considered by an advisory committee of specialists convened by FAO prior to the Conference.
3. Notice of any proposed amendment of this Convention shall be transmitted to the contracting Governments by the Director-General of FAO not later than the time when the agenda of the session of the Conference at which the matter is to be considered is dispatched.
4. Any such proposed amendment of this Convention shall require the approval of the Conference of FAO and shall come into force as from the thirtieth day after acceptance by two-thirds of the contracting Governments. Amendments involving new obligations for contracting Governments, however, shall come into force in respect of each contracting Government only on acceptance by it and as from the thirtieth day after such acceptance.
5. The instruments of acceptance of amendments involving new obligations shall be deposited with the Director-General of FAO, who shall inform all contracting Governments of the receipt of acceptances and the entry into force of amendments.
Article XIII ENTRY INTO FORCE
As soon as this Convention has been ratified by three signatory Governments it shall come into force between them. It shall come into force for each Government ratifying or adhering thereafter from the date of deposit of its instrument of ratification or adherence.
Article XV DENUNCIATION
1. Any contracting Government may at any time give notice of denunciation of this Convention by notification addressed to the Director-General of FAO. The Director-General shall at once inform all signatory and adhering Governments.
2. Denunciation shall take effect one year from the date of receipt of the notification by the Director-General of FAO.
Done at Rome, Italy on the sixth day of December, one thousand nine hundred and fifty-one, in a single copy in the English, French and Spanish languages, each of which shall be of equal authenticity. The document shall be deposited in the archives of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Certified copies shall be transmitted by the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture to each signatory and adhering Government.
In Witness Whereof the undersigned duly authorized to that effect, have signed this Convention on behalf of their respective Governments on the dates appearing opposite their signatures. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

