
 Amendment To The Agreement For The Establishment Of The Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council   
     Filename: 1955-Amendment-1948-IndoPacificFisheries.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/1955/20.html     
    ﻿AMENDMENT TO THE AGREEMENT FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INDO-PACIFIC FISHERIES COUNCIL
Source: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/1955/20.html
THAT, in the Council's Agreement, the word "meeting" be deleted wherever it occurs and substituted by the word "session".
THAT in paragraph 2 of Article II, the word "simple" between the words "a" and "majority" be deleted, and that the words "except as otherwise provided in this Agreement" be replaced by the words "except when a greater majority is required by this Agreement or by the Rules governing the procedure of the Council".
THAT the following be added to paragraph 3 of Article II of the Council's Agreement after the full stop following the word "Committee":
"In the unavoidable absence of one or two members of the Executive Committee from a Committee Session, the Chairman shall have the power to co-opt the Chairman of one or two of the Technical Committees which may from time to time be established in accordance with the Rules governing the procedure of the Council, at his discretion, to substitute the absent Committee member or members for that Committee Session only, provided that one permanent member of the Executive Committee shall always be present and that the number of voting members attending the Committee Session shall in no case exceed three."
Adopted by the Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council at its sixth session held in Tokyo from 30 September to 14 October 1955. The Amendments entered into force 31 October 1955. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

