
 Amendments To The Convention For The Regulation Of The Meshes Of Fishing Nets And The Size Limits Of Fish (Article 7, Paragraph 2)   
     Filename: 1958-Amendments-1946-MeshFishingNets.EN.txt 
 Source: UNTS vol. 354, p. 408.     
    ﻿Amendment Of Paragraph 2 Of Article 7 Of Convention For The Regulation Of The Meshes Of Fishing Nets And The Size Limits Of Fish
Source: UNTS vol. 354, p. 408.
Registered by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on 5 April 1960.
"Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing paragraph it shall not be deemed unlawful:
"(i) to attach to the underside of the cod-end of a trawl net any canvas, netting, or other material, for the purpose of preventing or reducing wear or tear;
and as from 1st January, 1959, and until 5th April, 1961, and only for trawl nets with a mesh of 110 mm. or more (or, in the case of trawl nets made of single twine and containing no manila or sisal in any part, with a mesh of 105 mm. or more):
"(ii) to attach a rectangular piece of netting to the upper side of the cod-end of a trawl net to reduce and prevent damage so long as such netting conforms to the following conditions:
"(a) this netting shall not have a mesh size less than that specified for the net itself;
"(b) the netting may be fastened to the cod-end only along the forward and lateral edges of the netting and at no other place in it, and shall be fastened in such a manner that it extends forward of the splitting strop no more than four meshes and ends not less than four meshes in front of the cod-line mesh; where a splitting strop is not used the netting shall not extend to more than one-third of the cod-end measured from not less than four meshes in front of the cod-line mesh;
"(c) the number of meshes in the width of the netting shall be at least one and a half times the number of meshes in the width of that part of the cod-end which is covered, both widths being taken at right angles to the long axis of the cod-end. " 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

