
 Protocol To Amend The Phytosanitary Convention For Africa South Of The Sahara   
     Filename: 1961-Protocol-1954-PhytosanitaryAfricaSouthSahara.EN.txt 
 Source: UNTS vol. 425, pp. 336.     
    ﻿Phyto-Sanitary Convention For Africa South Of The Sahara Between The Governments Of The Kingdom Of Belgium, The French Republic, The Portuguese Republic, The Federation Of Rhodesia And Nyasaland, The Union Of South Africa And The United Kingdom Of Great Britain And Northern Ireland
Source: UNTS vol. 425, pp. 336.
The Governments of the Kingdom of Belgium, the French Republic, the Republic of Ghana, the Republic of Portugal, the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, the Republic of South Africa and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland;
Considering it desirable to amend the Phyto-Sanitary Convention for Africa South of the Sahara signed at London on July 29, 1954[1] (hereinafter referred to as "the Convention");
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
There shall be substituted for paragraph (b) of Article 10 of the Convention the following:
"The annual amount to be contributed by the Participating Governments shall be fixed and apportioned among them as they shall from time to time decide."
Article 2
There shall be inserted, after Article 14 of the Convention, the following new article:
"Article 15
"(a) Any Participating Government may recommend amendments to the present Convention.
"(b) Any such recommendations shall be communicated to the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland who shall submit them to the other Participating Governments for their acceptance.
"(c) Any amendment to this Convention shall come into force upon the receipt by the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of notice of acceptance by all the Participating Governments.
"(d) The Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland shall communicate the date of entry into force to all the Participating Governments.
"(e) After an amendment has entered into force no Government may accede to this Convention unless it also accepts the amendment."
Article 3
The present Protocol shall enter into force upon signature, and any Government becoming a Party to the Convention after the Protocol has entered into force shall become a Party to the Convention as amended by the Protocol.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, duly authorised thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present Protocol.
DONE at London the eleventh day of October, 1961, in the English and French languages, both texts being equally authoritative, in a single copy which shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain andNorthern Ireland by whom certified copies shall be transmitted to each of the signatory Governments. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

