
 Convention On The African Migratory Locust   
     Filename: 1962-AfricanMigratoryLocust.EN.txt 
 Source: http://sedac.ciesin.org/entri/texts/migratory.locust.1962.html     
    ﻿Convention On The African Migratory Locust
Source: http://sedac.ciesin.org/entri/texts/migratory.locust.1962.html
The Governments of
Cameroons,
Central African Republic,
Chad,
Congo (Brazzaville),
Congo (Léopoldville),
Dahomey,
Gambia,
Ghana, 
Guinea,
Ivory Coast,
Kenya,
Mali,
Mauritania, 
Niger,
Nigeria
Rhodesia-Nyasaland
Senegal
Sierra Leone
Sudan,
Tanganyika,
Togo,
Uganda,
Upper Volta,
Desiring to continue on as wide an international basis as possible the preventive control of the African Migratory Locust undertaken in Africa in accordance with the Convention of May 15th 1952;
Desiring to extend this preventive control to any species of migratory acrididae other than the African Migratory Locust, likely to appear in the outbreak area on the Niger;
Taking note that, in order to facilitate the necessary reorganisation, the Governments party to the Convention of May 15th 1952 have declared themselves ready to terminate it on the date of entry into force of this Convention;
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
By this Convention there is established an Organisation called “The International African Locust Organisation" or in French "L'Organisation Internationale contre le Criquet Migrateur Africain".
Article 2
1) An International Administrative Council for the Surveillance and Preventive Control of the African Migratory Locust (hereinafter referred to as the "Council") is hereby established consisting of representatives designated by the Contracting Governments.
2) The seat of the Council shall be in the Republic of Mali.
3) The Council shall meet once each year in ordinary session at a place to be decided at its previous meeting.
4) The Council shall elect a President from among its members. He shall hold office for three years and may be re-elected.
5) Each Contracting Government shall have one vote on the Council. It may delegate its vote to any other contracting Government and shall notify such delegation of vote formally to the President of the Council.
6) The decisions of the Council, if taken by vote, will be taken by a simple majority of votes cast.
7) The Council shall adopt its own rules of procedure. It shall nominate an executive Committee and determine its composition and competence.
8) An extraordinary session of the Council may be convened by the President at the request of a least one fourth of the Contracting Governments.
9) The Council at its annual meeting shall examine the report and the accounts of the Organisation and shall adopt plans and draft estimates for the operations of the following financial year.
10) The Council shall have the right
a) to invite any international or regional organisation with an interest in locust control to appoint observers to attend the meetings of the Council; and
b) to invite any individual or representative of an anti-locust research organisation to attend its meetings as a consultant.
11) Each Contracting Government shall bear the cost of the attendance of its delegation at the Council.
Article 3
1) The Organisation shall exercise continuous surveillance and preventive control of the African Migratory Locust in the outbreak area already recognized on the Niger. Such control operations shall include in particular the destruction of all concentrations of this locust which threaten to develop into incipient bands and swarms.
2) The Organisation shall undertake research on the African Migratory Locust in order to determine the ecological factors involved in its multiplication and behaviour.
3) The Organisation shall devise and develop the most economic methods for its control.
4) The Organisation may also be entrusted with surveillance, research and preventive control relating to all other species of migratory acrididae of which bands or swarms may be formed in the outbreak area on the Niger.
5) The Organisation may, subject to prior approval by the Council, extend its operations to any other outbreak areas of the African Migratory Locust that may be recognized.
6) The Contracting Governments shall, when necessary,give every possible assistance requested by the Organisation for the destruction of incipient swarms.
Article 4
1) The Council shall appoint a Director of the Organisation subject to the prior approval of the authorities of the State in which its headquarters is situated.
2) The duties of the Director, in addition to those necessary to ensure the discharge of the Organisation's main function outlined in article 3, shall include:
a) the transmission by means of periodic reports to contracting Governments, and to such organisations as are concerned with antilocust research, of full information on the nature of the locust infestation, the progress of research and the operation of control measures;
b) the maintenance of permanent contact and co-operation with all other organisations concerned with the locust problem;
c) responsibility for the collection of the contributions of Contracting Governments;
d) responsibility for the maintenance of the accounts of the Organisation.
3) The director shall also submit to the Council a report for the past financial year as well as the programmes of work and estimates for the next year. He shall submit annually to the Council duly audited accounts. He will transmit copies of these documents to the Contracting Governments not later than one month before the annual meeting of the Council.
4) The director shall send a report for the preceding year, approved by the Council, to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations and the Commission for Technical Co-operation in Africa.
Article 5
The Council may arrange for inspections to be made of the activities of the organisation. Each Contracting Government may, with the prior approval of the Council, undertake similar inspections at its own expense.
Article 6
1) The Organisation established by this Convention succeeds to the assets and assumes the obligations of the Organisation set up under the Convention of the 15th May 1952.
2) Each Contracting Government shall facilitate the construction on its own territory of the buildings necessary to the operation of the Organisation.
3) Each Contracting Government shall contribute in money, supplies or services to the expenses of the equipment and operations of the Organisation on the basis of the proportions indicated in the annex to the present Convention. These proportions shall be revised by the Contracting Governments:
a) in the event of new accessions in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 8;
b) in the event of denunciation or withdrawal from this convention in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 9;
c) by agreement between all the Contracting Governments.
Article 7
The Contracting Governments shall accord to the staff of the Organisation operating in their countries the same privileges and immunities as they accord or would accord to the staff of a Specialised Agency of the United Nations.
Article 8
1) This Convention shall be ratified or approved by the Signatory Governments in accordance with their respective constitutional practice, and the instruments of ratification or approval shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the Republic of Mali.
2) The Government of any State may accede to the present Convention by depositing an instrument of accession with the Government of the Republic of Mali. The deposit of this instrument must in all cases be preceded by an agreement between the acceding Government and all the Contracting Governments in order to determine a new apportionment of the contributions laid down in paragraph 3 of article 6 of this Convention. Subject to the conclusion of such an agreement accession shall take effect from the date of deposit of the instrument of accession with the Government of Mali.
3) Each Contracting Government shall, if it sees fit, specify in its instrument of ratification, approval or accession, the geographical area to which this Convention shall apply in so far as it is concerned.
Article 9
1) This Convention shall come into force on the date of deposit of an instrument of ratification or approval by the sixth Signatory Government and shall enter into force in respect of other Signatory Governments on the date of deposit of their instruments of ratification or approval.
2) At the expiration of a period of five years from the 1st July, 1962, the Contracting Governments shall consult to decide whether modification.
3) After the expiration of a period of five years from the 1st July, 1962, the Convention may be denounced by any Contracting Government by means of written notification addressed to the Government of the Republic of Mali. Denunciation shall take effect one year after the date of receipt of the notification by the depository Government.
4) The Government of the Republic of Mali shall inform all Contracting Governments of the deposit of each instrument of ratification, approval or accession, and of each notification of denunciation made in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article.
Article 10
The Government of the Republic of Mali shall cause this Convention to be registered with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, duly authorised thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present Convention.
DONE at Kano the 25th of May, 1962 in French and English languages, both texts being equally authentic, in a single copy which shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the Republic of Mali which shall transmit duly certified copies thereof to all signatory and acceding Governments.
ANNEX TO THE CONVENTION ON THE AFRICAN MIGRATORY LOCUST[1].
DISTRIBUTION OF CONTRIBUTIONS
Cameroons 6%
Central African Republic 1%
Congo (Brazzaville) 1%
Congo (Léopoldville) 20%
Ivory Coast 6%
Dahomey 2%
Gambia 0.3%
Ghana 6%
Guinea 4.5%
Upper Volta 2%
Kenya 4%
Mali 4.5%
Mauritania 2%
Niger 2%
Nigeria 7.5%
Uganda 4%
Rhodesia-Nyasaland 5%
Senegal 6%
Sierra Leone 1.2%
Sudan 8%
Tanganyika 4%
Chad 1%
Togo 1%
On behalf of the Republic of Dahomey: E. D. KOUDOGBO 
On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Guinea: Keita SELIA 
On behalf of the Republic of Ivory Coast: D. FANNY 
In and on behalf of the Government of Kenya acting with the authority and consent of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: D. L. BLUNT 
On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Mali: Salah NIARE 
On behalf of the Government of Niger: Doro SEKOU 
For and on behalf of the Government of the Federation of Nigeria: 
On behalf of the Government of Senegal: Bocar LY 
For and on behalf the Republic of the Sudan: Yagoub el HILU 
In and on behalf of the Government of Tanganyika: P. C. WALWA In and 
On behalf of the Government of Uganda: L. LUBOWA 
On behalf of the Government of the Federal Republic of Cameroons: Michel NJINE 
On behalf of the Government of Ghana: Dan K. AMEKUDZI 
14 March 1963 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

