
 Amendments To The Constitution Of The European Commission For The Control Of Foot And Mouth Disease   
     Filename: 1962-Amendments-1953-EuropeanCommissionFootMouthDisease.EN.txt 
 Source: UNTS vol. 454, pp. 556     
    ﻿Amendments To The Constitution Of The European Commission For The Control Of Foot-And-Mouth Disease
Source: UNTS vol. 454, pp. 556
The provisions listed below in the left-hand column are to be replaced by the following texts:
[Editor's note: the original text for this document is unclear about which articles were amended. This document has been matched to the original constitution to identify the appropriate articles. All changes introduced by the editor are enclosed in square brackets.]
[Replace the Preamble with the following text:]
Preamble
The contracting Governments, having regard to the urgent necessity of preventing the recurrence of the heavy losses to European agriculture caused by the repeated outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease, hereby establish, within the framework of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, a Commission to by known as the European Commission for the Control of Foot-and-Mouth Disease, whose object shall be to promote national and international action with respect to control measures against foot-and-mouth disease in Europe.
[Replace Article I with the following text:]
Article I Membership:
1. Membership in the European Commission for the Control of Foot-and-Mouth Disease (hereinafter referred to as the "Commission") shall be open to such European Member Nations of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, and to such European Member Nations of the International Office of Epizootics that are Members of the United Nations, as accept this Constitution in accordance with the provisions of Article XV. The Commission may, by a two-thirds majority of the membership of the Commission, admit to membership such other European Nations that are Members of the United Nations as have submitted an application for membership and a declaration made in a formal instrument that it accepts the obligations of this Constitution as in force at the time of admission.
2. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (hereinafter referred to as "the Organization"), the International Office of Epizootics (hereinafter referred to as "the Office") and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development shall have the right to be represented at all sessions of the Commission and its Committees, but their representatives shall not have the right to vote.
3. The Commission shall elect, at the end of each regular session, a Chairman, and two Vice-Chairmen from amongst the delegates. These officers shall hold office until the end of the next regular session, without prejudice to the right of re-election.
[Replace Article VII, paragraph 1 with the following text:]
1. The Commission may establish temporary, special or standing committees to study and report on matters pertaining to the purpose of the Commission, subject to the availability of the necessary funds in the approved budget of the Commission.
[Replace Article VII, paragraph 3 with the following text:]
3. Membership in such committees may be open to all Members of the Commission or consist of selected Members of the Commission or of individuals appointed in their personal capacity because of their special competence in technical matters, as determined by the Commission.
[Replace Article VIII with the following text:]
Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the Commission may, by a majority of two-thirds of its membership, adopt and amend its own Rules of Procedure and Financial Regulations, which shall be in conformity with the General Rules and Financial Regulations of the Organization. The Rules and Regulations of the Commission and any amendments thereto shall come into force upon approval by the Director-General of the Organization, subject to confirmation by the Council of the Organization.
[Replace Article IX with the following text:]
1. Any Member Nation of the Organization that is not a Member of the Commission and any Associate Member may be invited to, or, upon its request, be represented by an observer at sessions of the Commission. It may submit memoranda and participate without vote in the discussions.
2. Nations which, while not Members of the Commission nor Members or Associate Members of the Organization, are Members of the United Nations may, upon request and subject to the concurrence of the Commission through its Chairman and to the provisions relating to the granting of observer status to nations adopted by the Conference of the Organization, be invited to attend in an observer capacity sessions of the Commission.
3. Participation of international organizations in the work of the Commission and the relations between the Commission and such organizations shall be governed by the relevant provisions of the Constitution and the General Rules of the Organization as well as by the rules on relations with international organizations adopted by the Conference or Council of the Organization. All such relations shall be dealt with by the Director-General of the Organization. The relations between the Organization and the Office are governed by such agreement between the Organization and the Office as may be in force.
[Replace Article X, paragraph 1 with the following text:]
1. An executive Committee shall be established and shall be composed of the Chairman, and Vice-Chairmen of the Commission and three delegates of Members selected by the Commission at the end of its regular session. The Chairman of the Commission shall be the Chairman of the Executive Committee.
[Replace Article X, paragraph 2 with the following text:]
2. Members of the Executive Committee shall hold office until the end of the next regular session without prejudice to the right of re-election.
[Replace Article XII, paragraph 3 with the following text:]
3. Expenses incurred by delegates, their alternates, experts and advisers when attending sessions of the Commission and its Committees as government representatives, as well as the expenses incurred by observers at sessions, shall be borne by the respective governments or organizations. The expenses of experts invited by the Commission to attend meetings of the Commission or its Committees in their individual capacity shall be borne by the budget of the Commission.
[Replace Article XIII, paragraph 3 with the following text:]
3. Annual contributions provided for under paragraphs 1 and 2 above shall be payable before the end of the first month of the financial year to which they apply.
[Replace Article XIV with the following text:]
1. This Constitution may be amended by the Commission by a two-thirds majority of the membership of the Commission.
2. Proposals for the amendment of the Constitution may be made by any Member of the Commission in a communication addressed to both the Chairman of the Commission and the Director-General of the Organization. The Director-General shall immediately inform all Members of the Commission of all proposals for amendments.
3. No proposal for the amendment of the Constitution shall be included in the agenda of any session unless notice thereof has been received by the Director-General of the Organization at least 120 days before the opening of the session.
4. Amendments shall become effective only with the concurrence of the Council of the Organization.
5. An amendment not involving additional obligations for Members of the Commission shall take effect from the date of the decision of the Council.
6. An amendment which, in the view of the Commission, involves additional obligations for Members of the Commission shall, after approval by the Council, bind the Members of the Commission who have accepted the amendment, as from the date on which it has been accepted by two-thirds of the membership of the Commission, and thereafter for each remaining Member of the Commission upon the date of receipt by the Director-General of the instrument of acceptance of the amendment by that Member.
7. The instruments of acceptance of amendments involving additional obligations shall be deposited with the Director-General of the Organization who shall inform all Members of the Commission of the receipt of such instruments.
8. The rights and obligations of any Member of the Commission that has not accepted an amendment involving additional obligations shall, for a period not exceeding two years as from the date of entry into force of the amendment, continue to be governed by the provisions of the Constitution as they stood prior to the amendment. Upon expiry of the aforementioned period, any Member of the Commission that has not accepted such amendment shall be bound by the Constitution as so amended.
9. The Director-General shall inform all Members of the Commission of the entry into force of any amendment.
[Replace Article XV with the following text:]
1. Acceptance of this Constitution shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument of acceptance with the Director-General of the Organization and shall take effect, as regards Members of the Organization or the Office, on receipt of such instrument by the Director-General who shall forthwith inform each of the Members of the Commission.
2. Membership of nations, that are eligible for membership under Article I but are neither Members of the Organization nor of the Office, shall become effective on the date on which the Commission approves the application for membership in conformity with the provisions of Article I. The Director-General shall inform each of the Members of the Commission of the approval of any application for membership.
3. Acceptance of this Constitution may be made subject to reservations. The Director-General of the Organization shall notify forthwith all Members of the Commission of the receipt of any application for membership or any instrument of acceptance of the Constitution either of which contains a reservation. A reservation shall become effective only upon unanimous approval by the Members of the Commission. The Members of the Commission not having replied within three months from the date of the notification by the Director-General of the reservation shall be deemed to have accepted the reservation. Failing unanimous approval by the Members of the Commission of a reservation, the nation making the reservation shall not become a party to this Constitution. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

