
 Protocol To The International Convention For The Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Relating to Harp and Hood Seals   
     Filename: 1963-Protocol-1949-NorthWestAtlanticFisheries.EN.txt 
 Source: RS-VI:2786     
    ﻿Protocol To The International Convention For The Northwest Atlantic Fisheries
Source:
The Governments parties to the International Convention for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries signed at Washington under date of February 8, 1949, which Convention, as amended, is hereinafter referred to as the Convention, desiring to extend the provisions of the Convention to harp and hood seals, agree as follows:
Article I
The provisions of the Convention shall be applicable with respect to harp and hood seals in conformity with Articles II and III of this Protocol.
Article II
1. The Contracting Governments shall establish and maintain a Panel with jurisdiction respecting harp and hood seals in the Convention area. Initial representation on the Panel shall be determined by the International Commission for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries on the basis of current substantial exploitation of harp and hood seals in the Convention area, except that each Contracting Government with coastline adjacent to the Convention area shall have the right to representation on the Panel.
2. Panel representation shall be reviewed annually by the Commission, which shall have the power, subject to consultation with the Panel, to determine representation on the Panel on the same basis as provided in paragraph 1 of this Article for initial representation.
Article III
Proposals in accordance with Article VIII of the Convention for joint action by Contracting Governments with respect to harp and hood seals shall become effective for all Contracting Governments four months after the date on which notifications of acceptance have been received by the Depositary Government from all the Contracting Governments participating in the Panel for harp and hood seals.
Article IV
1. This Protocol shall be open for signature and ratification or for adherence on behalf of any Government party to the Convention.
2. This Protocol shall enter into force on the date on which instruments of ratification have been deposited with, or written notifications of adherence have been received by, the Government of the United States of America, on behalf of all the Governments parties to the Convention.
3. Any Government becoming a party to the Convention after this Protocol enters into force shall adhere to this Protocol, such adherence to be effective on the same date that such Government becomes a party to the Convention.
4. The Government of the United States of America shall inform all Governments signatory or adhering to the Convention of all ratifications deposited and adherences received and of the date this Protocol enters into force.
Article V
1. The original of this Protocol shall be deposited with the Government of the United States of America, which Government shall communicate certified copies thereof to all the Governments signatory or adhering to the Convention.
2. This Protocol shall bear the date on which it is opened for signature and shall remain open for signature for a period of fourteen days thereafter, following which period it shall be open for adherence.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, having deposited their respective full powers, have signed this Protocol.
DONE at Washington this fifteenth day of July, 1963 in the English language.
For Canada: C. S. A. RITCHIE July 15, 1963 For Denmark: T. DAHLGAARD July 26, 1963 For the Federal Republic of Germany: For France: Bruno DE LEUSSE July 29, 1963 For Iceland: Ingvi INGVARSSON July 22nd, 1963 For Italy: G. L. Milesi FERRETTI July 26, 1963 For Norway: Rolf HANCKE July 19, 1963 For Poland: E. DROZNIAK July 16, 1963 For Portugal: Ped. Th. PEREIRA July 29, 1963 For Spain: Antonio GARRIGUES July 25, 1963 For the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics: G. KORNIENKO 18 July 1963 For the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: David ORMSBY GORE 20th July 1963 For the United States of America: Fred E. TAYLOR July 26, 1963 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

