
 Protocol To The International Convention For The Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Relating To Entry Into Force Of Proposals Adopted By The Commission   
     Filename: 1965-ProtocolEntryIntoForce-1949-NorthWestAtlanticFisheries.EN.txt 
 Source: UNTS vol. 753, pp. 358.     
    ﻿Protocol To The International Convention For The Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Of 8 February 1949 2 Relating To Entry Into Force Op Proposals Adopted By The Commission
Source: UNTS vol. 753, pp. 358.
The Governments parties to the International Convention for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries signed at Washington under date of February 8, 1949, which Convention, as amended, 2 is hereinafter referred to as the Convention, desiring to facilitate the entry into force of proposals adopted by the Commission, agree as follows:
Article I
Paragraphs 7 and 8 of Article VIII of the Convention shall be amended to read as follows:
"7. (a) Each proposal made by the Commission under paragraphs 1 or 5 of this Article shall become effective for all Contracting Governments six months after the date on the notification from the Depositary Government transmitting the proposal to the Contracting Governments, except as otherwise provided herein.
"(b) If any Contracting Government participating in the Panel or Panels for the sub-area or sub-areas to which a proposal applies, or any Contracting Government in the case of a proposal made under paragraph 5 above, presents to the Depositary Government objection to any proposal within six months of the date on the notification of the proposal by the Depositary Government, the proposal shall not become effective for any Government for an additional sixty days. Thereupon any other Contracting Government participating in the Panel or Panels concerned, or any other Contracting Government in the case of a proposal made under paragraph 5 above, may similarly object prior to the expiration of the additional sixty-day period, or within thirty days after receiving notice of an objection by another Contracting Government made within such additional sixty days, whichever date shall be the later. The proposal shall become effective for all Contracting Governments except those Governments which have presented objections, at the end of the extended period or periods for objecting. If, however, objections have been presented by a majority of Contracting Governments participating in the Panel or Panels concerned, or by a majority of all Contracting Governments in the case of a proposal made under paragraph 5, the proposal shall not become effective unless any or all of the Contracting Governments nevertheless agree as among themselves to give effect to it on an agreed date.
"(c) Any Contracting Government which has objected to a proposal may at any time withdraw that objection and the proposal shall become effective with respect to such Government, immediately if the proposal is already in effect, or at such time as it becomes effective under the terms of this Article.
"8. The Depositary Government shall notify each Contracting Government immediately upon receipt of each objection and of each withdrawal of objection, and of the entry into force of any proposal."
Article II
1. This Protocol shall be open for signature and ratification or approval or for adherence by any Government party to the Convention.
2. This Protocol shall enter into force on the date on which instruments of ratification or approval have been deposited with, or written notifications of adherence have been received by, the Government of the United States of America, from all the Governments parties to the Convention.
3. Any Government becoming a party to the Convention after this Protocol enters into force shall adhere to this Protocol, such adherence to be effective on the same date that such Government becomes a party to the Convention.
4. The Government of the United States of America shall inform all Governments signatory or adhering to the Convention of all ratifications or approvals deposited and adherences received and of the date this Protocol enters into force.
Article III
1. The original of this Protocol shall be deposited with the Government of the United States of America, which Government shall communicate certified copies thereof to all the Governments signatory or adhering to the Convention.
2. This Protocol shall bear the date on which it is opened for signature and shall remain open for signature for a period of fourteen days thereafter, following which period it shall be open for adherence.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, having deposited their respective powers, have signed this Protocol.
DONE at Washington this twenty-ninth day of November 1965, in the English language.
For Canada: C. S. A. RITCHIE December 13th, 1965 For Denmark: TORBEN RONNE December 1st, 1965 For the Federal Republic of Germany: K.H. KNAPPSTEIN December 8th, 1965 For France: BRUNO DE LEUSSE December 13th, 1965 For Iceland: PÉTUR THORSTEINSSON December 7th, 1965 For Italy: SERGIO FENOALTEA December 13th, 1965 For Norway: HANS ENGEN December 13th, 1965 For Poland: E. DROZNIAK December 13th, 1965 For Portugal: VASCO VIEIRA GARIN December 13th, 1965 For Spain: MERRY DEL VAL December 8th, 1965 For the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics: A. DOBRYNIN December 2nd, 1965 For the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: PATRICK DEAN December 8th, 1965 For the United States of America: BURDICK H. BRITTIN December 2nd, 1965 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

