
 Agreement On Reciprocal Access To Fishing In The Skagerrak And The Kattegat   
     Filename: 1966-ReciprocalAccessFishingSkagerrakKattegat.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.intfish.net/treaties/skagerrak.htm     
    ﻿Agreement Between Denmark, Norway And Sweden On Reciprocal Access To Fishing In The Skagerrak And The Kattegat
Source: http://www.intfish.net/treaties/skagerrak.htm, and UNTS 1967, pp. 320ff.
The Governments of Denmark, Norway and Sweden, desiring to maintain the access of fishermen of the three countries to the fishery resources in the areas of the Skagerrak and the Kattegat which have long been a common fishing ground, have, with a view to the possibility of changes in the fishery limits of the three countries, agreed, as neighbouring countries, to enter into an arrangement based on the following provisions:
Article 1
The area to which this Agreement relates comprises the Skagerrak and the northern Kattegat bounded on the west by a straight line running through the Hanstholm lighthouse and the Lindesnes lighthouse and on the south by a straight line running through the Skagen lighthouse and the Tistlarna lighthouse.
Article 2
1. Each of the Contracting States shall, irrespective of such fishery limits as they may otherwise establish, permit vessels of the other two countries to engage in fishing in the water area specified in article 1 to a distance of four nautical miles (1 nautical mile = 1,852 metres) from the baseline of the territorial sea, with the result that the aforementioned water area shall, for the purposes of such fishing, be deemed to constitute the high seas.
2. To such extent as may be considered appropriate, an attempt shall be made through mutual consultation to establish as uniform regulations as possible in the three countries in respect of fishing in the area specified in article 1.
Article 3
1. This Agreement shall be ratified. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited in the archives of the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
2. The Agreement shall come into force one month after the date on which the last of the Contracting States deposits its instrument of ratification.
3. The Agreement shall remain in force for a period of thirty-five years and shall thereafter continue in force for successive periods of five years unless a Contracting State terminates it by giving written notice to the other Contracting States with effect from the expiry of the current period. Notice of termination must be given at least three years before the date of expiry.
The Agreement shall be deposited in the archives of the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and a certified copy shall be transmitted by the said Ministry to each of the Contracting States.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the respective plenipotentiaries have signed this Agreement.
DONE at Copenhagen on 19 December 1966 in one copy in the Danish, Norwegian and Swedish languages.
For the Government of Denmark: J. O. KRAG
For the Government of Norway: B. AUGDAHL
For the Government of Sweden: R. BAGGE 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

