
 Amendments To The Plant Protection Agreement For The Asia And Pacific Region (extending geographic scope - Art.1a)   
     Filename: 1967-Amendments-1956-AsiaPacificPlantProtectionCommission.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/1969/27.html     
    ﻿AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE I(a) OF THE PLANT PROTECTION AGREEMENT FOR THE SOUTH EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
Source: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/1969/27.html
THE COUNCIL,
CONSIDERING that the Plant Protection Committee for the South-East Asia and Pacific Region decided that an amendment to Article I(a) of the Plant Protection Agreement for the South-East Asia and Pacific Region[2] was desirable in order to extend the geographical scope of the Agreement and that the Committee had to this end suggested a new definition of the Region;
HAVING EXAMINED the new definition of the Region submitted to it by the Director-General in accordance with the provisions of Article IX, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Agreement, which definition reads as follows:
"The South-East Asia and Pacific Region, hereinafter called "The Region", comprises all territories in South-East Asia east of the western border of Pakistan and south of the Himalayas, the southern border of China and west of the eastern coast of Vietnam, together with all those territories in the Pacific Ocean, the South China Sea and the Indian Ocean situated wholly or partly in the area bounded by longitude 100deg. East, latitude 45deg. South, longitude 130deg. West, latitude 38deg. North to the point of its intersection with the western coast of the Republic of Korea, and from that point a straight line to Taipei, and thence a straight line to the point of intersection of the eastern coast of Vietnam and latitude 15deg. North. For the purpose of implementing the objectives of this Agreement, Hong Kong shall also be considered as being in the Region."
APPROVES the new definition of the Region embodied in the text quoted in the preceding paragraph which text is to be submitted by way of amendment for that appearing in Article I(a) of the Plant Protection Agreement for the South-East Asia and Pacific Region.
[Approved under Resolution 2/49 by the Council of the Food and Agriculture Organization at its 49th Session at Rome, 30 October-3 November 1967] 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

