
 Amendment Of Rectification Of The English Authentic Text Of The Agreement Concerning The Niger River Commission And The Navigation And Transport On The River Niger, Effected By Proces-Verbal   
     Filename: 1968-AmendmentRectification-1964-NigerRiverCommissionNavigationTransportRiverNiger.EN.txt 
 Source: United Nations, Treaty Series, Vol. 587, p. 19.     
    ﻿Amendment Of Rectification Of The English Authentic Text Of The Agreement Concerning The Niger River Commission And The Navigation And Transport On The River Niger, Effected By Proces-Verbal
Source: United Nations, Treaty Series, Vol. 587, p. 19.
We, Abdou Sidikou, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Niger, having compared the English version of the original text of the Agreement concerning the River Niger Commission with respect to navigation and transport on the River Niger, dated 25 November 19641 at Niamey, with the official records of the Conference of the Riparian States of the River Niger, its tributaries and sub-tributaries, held at Niamey from 23 to 25 November 1964, have noted that the original English version contains two errors which should be corrected.
I. The English version of the title as it appears in the original text reads as follows:
"Agreement concerning the River Niger Commission with respect to navigation and transport on the River Niger"
In order to bring the English version into line with the text adopted by the Conference and with the title as it appears in the French version, which is equally authentic, this title should read as follows:
"Agreement concerning the River Niger Commission and the navigation and transport on the River Niger"
II. Article 18 of the original text reads as follows:
"The Act of Niamey and this Agreement may be amended upon the written request of two thirds of the riparian States addressed to the Government of the Republic of Niger. Any proposal for revision shall require the approval of all the riparian States, and shall take effect six months after the date of its adoption."
In order to bring the English version into line with the text adopted by the Conference and with article 18 of the French version, which is equally authentic, this article should read as follows:
"The Act of Niamey and this Agreement may be amended upon the written request of one third of the riparian States addressed to the Government of the Republic of Niger. Any proposal for revision shall require the approval of two thirds of the riparian States, and shall take effect six months after the date of its adoption."
Accordingly, as the representative of the Government of the Niger, the depositary of the Agreement, having obtained the consent of the States which have signed the Agreement in its present form, we have today proceeded to make the above corrections and have initialled them in the margin of the original text of the Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF we have signed this procès-verbal. DONE at Niamey, on 3 January 1968. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

