
 Exchange Of Notes Constituting An Agreement To Continue In Force The Interim Convention Between The United States Of America, Canada, Japan And The Union Of Soviet Socialist Republics On Conservation Of North Pacific Fur Seals   
     Filename: 1969-ExchangeOfNotes-1957-FurSeals.EN.txt 
 Source: https://iea.uoregon.edu/MarineMammals/engine/Documents/0-1591-1594.htm     
    ﻿Exchange Of Notes Constituting An Agreement To Continue In Force The Interim Convention Between The United States Of America, Canada, Japan And The Union Of Soviet Socialist Republics On Conservation Of North Pacific Fur Seals
Source: https://iea.uoregon.edu/MarineMammals/engine/Documents/0-1591-1594.htm, and United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 314, p. 105, and annex A in vol. 494.
I
The Secretary of State to the Chiefs of Mission of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, Canada, and Japan
March 19, 1969
The Secretary of State presents his compliments to Their Excellencies and Messieurs the Chiefs of Mission of the Governments concerned with the Interim Convention on Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals signed at Washington on February 9, 1957, as amended by the Protocol signed at Washington on October 8, 1963, and has the honor to refer to a letter dated October 13, 1968 received from the Chairman of the North Pacific Fur Seal Commission, a copy of which is enclosed. It is the understanding of the Government of the United States that similar letters have been received by each of the Parties to the above-mentioned Convention.
In view of the recommendation by the North Pacific Fur Seal Commission that studies be continued to determine whether or not palagic sealing in conjunction with land sealing could be permitted in certain circumstances without adversely affecting achievement of the objectives of the Convention; the Government of the United States agrees with the Chairman of the Commission that it would be in order for the Parties to continue the amended Convention in force for an additional period of time.
It is the understanding of the Government of the United States that the Parties agree, with reference to Article XIII, paragraph 4, of the amended Convention that the Convention as amended shall continue in force for eighteen years and thereafter until the entry into force of a new or revised fur seal convention between the Parties, or until the expiration of one year after such period of eighteen years, whichever may be earlier, and, with reference to Article XI, that the Parties shall meet for the purposes set forth in that Article at a mutually acceptable time, not later than early in the eighteenth year, after further recommendations have been made by the Commission.
It is further the understanding of the Government of the United States that a meeting of the Parties early in the twelfth year of the Convention will be unnecessary, the purposes of such meeting already having been accomplished as herein indicated.
The Government of the United States hereby confirms the foregoing understanding on its part and would appreciate receiving written confirmations of such understandings by the other Parties. The Government of the United States will be pleased to notify such Parties of confirmations when received.
II (a)
EMBASSY OF THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS
The Embassy of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics presents its compliments to the Secretary of State of the United States of America and, referring to his note dated March 19, 1969, communicates that the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics agrees that the Interim Convention on Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals, signed in Washington on February 9, 1957, with amendments introduced by the Protocol signed in Washington on October 8, 1963, remain in force, bearing in mind Article XIII, Paragraph 4, of the Convention, for a period of eighteen years and further, until the entry into force of a new or revised Fur Seal Convention between the Parties or until the expiration of one year after such eighteen year period, depending upon which occurs first.
Washington, April 1, 1969 Department of State
United States of America Washington, D.C.
II (b)
[EMBLEM]
CANADIAN EMBASSY AMBASSADE DU CANADA
No. 153
The Canadian Embassy presents its compliments to the Secretary of State and has the honour to refer to the Secretary's Note of March 19, 1969 concerning the Interim Convention on Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals signed at Washington on February 9, 1957, as amended by the Protocol signed at Washington on October 8, 1963. The Embassy wishes to inform the Secretary of State that the Canadian Government has noted the understandings set out and confirmed in the Secretary's Note under reference.
The Canadian Government has received a letter from the Chairman of the North Pacific Fur Seal Commission similar to the Chairman's letter of October 13, 1968 to the Secretary of State, a copy of which was attached to the above-mentioned Note.
The Canadian Government agrees that it would be in order for the Parties to the Interim Convention on Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals to continue the amended Convention in force for an additional period of time.
It is the understanding of the Canadian Government that the Parties agree, with reference to Article XIII, paragraph 4, of the amended Convention, that the Convention as amended shall continue in force for 18 years, and thereafter until the entry into force of a new or revised Fur Seal Convention between the Parties, or until the expiration of one year after such period of eighteen years, whichever may be earlier, and, with reference to Article XI, that the Parties shall meet for the purposes set forth in that Article at a mutually acceptable time, not later than early in the eighteenth year, after further recommendations have been made by the Commission.
It is further the understanding of the Canadian Government that a meeting of the Parties early in the twelfth year of the Convention will be unnecessary, the purposes of such meeting already having been accomplished as herein indicated.
The Embassy confirms the foregoing understandings on the part of the Government of Canada as requested by the Government of the United States in its capacity of Depositary Government for the Convention.
The Canadian Embassy avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Secretary of State the assurances of its highest consideration.
Washington, D.C. June 3, 1969
il (C)
EMBASSY OF JAPAN
WASHINGTON
August 29, 1969
E-2
Sir:
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Note dated March 19, 1969, which reads as follows:
[See note I]
I have further the honor to confirm on behalf of my Government that the foregoing is also the understanding of the Government of Japan.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration.
Takeso SHIMODA
Ambassador of Japan The Honorable William P. Rogers
The Secretary of State
III
The Secretary of State to the Chiefs of Mission of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, Canada, and Japan
October 17, 1969
The Secretary of State presents his compliments to Their Excellencies and Messieurs the Chiefs of Mission of the Governments concerned with the Interim Convention on Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals signed at Washington on February 9, 1957, as amended by the Protocol signed at Washington on October 8, 1963, and has the honor to refer to the Secretary of State's circular note dated March 19, 1969 which stated, inter alia, as follows:
" In view of the recommendation by the North Pacific Fur Seal Commission that studies be continued to determine whether or not pelagic sealing in conjunction with land sealing could be permitted in certain circumstances without adversely affecting achievement of the objectives of the Convention, the Government of the United States agrees with the Chairman of the Commission that it would be in order for the Parties to continue the amended Convention in force for an additional period of time.
" It is the understanding of the Government of the United States that the Parties agree, with reference to Article XIII, paragraph 4, of the amended Convention, that the Convention as amended shall continue in force for eighteen years and thereafter until the entry into force of a new or revised fur seal convention between the Parties, or until the expiration of one year after such period of eighteen years, whichever may be earlier, and, with reference to Article XI, that the Parties shall meet for the purposes set forth in that Article at a mutually acceptable time, not later than early in the eighteenth year, after further recommendations have been made by the Commission.
" It is further the understanding of the Government of the United States that a meeting of the Parties early in the twelfth year of the Convention will be unnecessary, the purposes of such meeting already having been accomplished as herein indicated.
" The Government of the United States hereby confirms the foregoing understanding on its part and would appreciate receiving written confirmation of such understandings by the other Parties. The Government of the United States will be pleased to notify such Parties of confirmations when received. "
The Secretary of State transmits herewith copies of notes received from the Embassy of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics dated April 1, 1969 (with translation be the Department of State), the Embassy of Canada dated June 3, 1969, and the Ambassador of Japan dated August 29, 1969, confirming the foregoing understandings on the part of the respective Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Canada, and Japan. As indicated herinbefore the United States of America notified the other Parties of its confirmation of the understandings on March 19, 1969.
The Secretary of State would be grateful if each Chief of Mission would for-ward this information to his Government.
Enclosures:
Copies of three notes, as stated.
Department of State Washington 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

