
 Protocol To The International Convention For The Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Relating To Panel Membership And To Regulatory Measures   
     Filename: 1969-Protocol-1949-NorthWestAtlanticFisheries.EN.txt 
 Source: http://iea.uoregon.edu/pages/MarineMammals/engine/Documents/0-1170-1171.htm     
    ﻿Protocol To The International Convention For The Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Relating To Panel Membership And To Regulatory Measures
Source: https://iea.uoregon.edu/MarineMammals/engine/Documents/0-1170-1171.htm
The Governments parties to the International Convention for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries signed at Washington under date of 8 February 1949,[2] which Convention as amended is hereinafter referred to as the Convention, desiring to establish a more appropriate basis for the determination of representation on the Panels established under the Convention, and desiring to provide for greater flexibility in the types of fisheries regulatory measures which may be proposed by the International Commission for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries, agree as follows:
Article I
Paragraph 2 of Article IV of the Convention shall be amended to read as follows:
"2. Panel representation shall be reviewed annually by the Commission, which shall have the power, subject to consultation with the Panel concerned, to determine representation on each Panel on the basis of current substantial exploitation of the stocks of fish in the subarea concerned or on the basis of current substantial exploitation of harp and hood seals in the Convention Area, except that each Contracting Government with coastline adjacent to a subarea shall have the right of representation on the Panel for the subarea."
Article II
Paragraph 2 of Article VII of the Convention shall be amended to read as follows:
"2. Each Panel, upon the basis of scientific investigations, and economic and technical considerations, may make recommendations to the Commission for joint action by the Contracting Governments within the scope of paragraph 1 of Article VIII."
Article III
Paragraph 1 of Article VIII of the Convention shall be amended to read as follows:
"1. The Commission may, on the recommendations of one or more Panels, and on the basis of scientific investigations, and economic and technical considerations, transmit to the Depositary Government appropriate proposals, for joint action by the Contracting Governments, designed to achieve the optimum utilization of the stocks of those species of fish which support international fisheries in the Convention Area."
Article IV
1. This Protocol shall be open for signature and ratification or approval or for adherence on behalf of any Government party to the Convention.
2. This Protocol shall enter into force on the date on which instruments of ratification or approval have been deposited with, or written notifications of adherence have been received by, the Government of the United States of America, on behalf of all the Governments parties to the Convention.
3. Any Government which adheres to the Convention after this Protocol has been opened for signature shall at the same time adhere to this Protocol.
4. The Government of the United States of America shall inform all Governments signatory or adhering to the Convention of all ratifications or approvals deposited and adherences received and of the date this Protocol enters into force.
Article V
1. The original of this Protocol shall be deposited with the Government of the United States of America, which Government shall communicate certified copies thereof to all the Governments signatory or adhering to the Convention.
2. This Protocol shall bear the date on which it is opened for signature and shall remain open for signature for a period of fourteen days thereafter, following which period it shall be open for adherence.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, having deposited their respective full powers, have signed this Protocol.
DONE at Washington this first day of October 1969, in the English language. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

