
 Protocol To The Convention For The International Council For The Exploration Of The Sea   
     Filename: 1970-Protocol-1964-ExplorationSea.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.intfish.net/treaties/ices_pr.htm     
    ﻿Protocol to the Convention for the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea
SRC: http://www.intfish.net/treaties/ices_pr.htm, 20060505
The Governments of the States Parties to the Convention for the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, signed at Copenhagen on the twelfth day of September 1964 (hereinafter referred to as "the Convention"),
Desiring to amend certain provisions of the Convention,
Have agreed as follows:
Article I
Paragraph (2) of Article 14 of the Convention shall be amended to read as follows:
"(2) the Council shall by a majority vote of all the Contracting Parties approve an annual budget of the Council".
Article II
1. This Protocol shall be open for signature on behalf of the Governments of all States Parties to the Convention with or without reservation as to ratification or approval.
2. Instruments of ratification or approval shall be deposited with the Government of Denmark.
3. This Protocol shall enter into force on the date on which the Governments of all States Parties to the Convention have become Parties to this Protocol.
4. The Government of Denmark shall inform the Governments of the States Parties to the Convention of each signature ratification or approval of this Protocol and of the date of the entry into force of the Protocol.
In Witness Whereof the undersigned being duly authorized have signed this Protocol.
Done at Copenhagen this thirteenth day of August 1970, in the English and French languages, both texts being equally authentic, in a single copy which shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of Denmark who shall forward certified true copies to the Governments of all States Parties to the Convention. 
Copenhagen, 13 August 1970 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

