
 Protocol To The International Convention For The Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Relating To The Facilitation of Entry Into Force of Amendments To The Convention   
     Filename: 1970-Protocol-1949-NorthWestAtlanticFisheries.EN.txt 
 Source: RS-VI:2798; 1082 UNTS 276     
    ﻿Protocol To The International Convention For The Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Relating To The Facilitation Of Entry Into Force Of Amendments To The Convention
Source:
The Governments parties to the International Convention for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries signed at Washington under date of February 8, 1949, which Convention, as amended, is hereinafter referred to as the Convention, desiring to facilitate the entry into force of amendments to the Convention, agree as follows:
Article I.
Article XVII of the Convention is renumbered "Article XVIII" and a new Article XVII is inserted to read as follows:
"Article XVII. 1. Any Contracting Government or the Commission may propose amendments to this Convention to be considered and acted upon by a regular meeting of the Commission or by a special meeting of the Commission called in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 of Article II of the Convention. Any such proposed amendment shall be sent to the Executive Secretary at least ninety days prior to the meeting at which it is proposed to be acted upon, and he shall immediately transmit the proposal to all Contracting Governments and to all Commissioners.
"2. A proposed amendment to the Convention shall be adopted by the Commission by a three-fourths majority of the votes of all Contracting Governments. The text of any proposed amendment so adopted shall be transmitted by the Depositary Government to all Contracting Governments.
"3. Any amendment shall take effect for all Contracting Governments one hundred and twenty days following the date on the notification by the Depositary Government of receipt of written notification of approval by three fourths of all Contracting Governments unless any other Contracting Government notifies the Depositary Government that it objects to the amendment, within ninety days of the date of the notification by the Depositary Government of such receipt, in which case the amendment shall not take effect for any Contracting Government. Any Contracting Government which has objected to an amendment may at any time withdraw that objection. If all objections to an amendment are withdrawn, the amendment shall take effect for all Contracting Governments one hundred and twenty days following the date on the notification by the Depositary Government of receipt of the last withdrawal.
"4. Any Government which becomes a party to the Convention after an amendment has been adopted in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article shall be deemed to have approved the said amendment.
"5. The Depositary Government shall promptly notify all Contracting Governments of the receipt of notifications of approval of amendments, the receipt of notifications of objection or withdrawal of objections, and the entry into force of amendments."
Article II.
1. This Protocol shall be open for signature and ratification or approval or for adherence on behalf of any Government party to the Convention.
2. This Protocol shall enter into force on the date on which instruments of ratification or approval have been deposited with, or written notices of adherence have been received by, the Government of the United States of America, on behalf of all Governments parties to the Convention.
3. Any Government which becomes a party to the Convention after this Protocol has been opened for signature shall at the same time adhere to this Protocol.
4. The Government of the United States of America shall inform all Governments signatory or adhering to the Convention of all ratifications and approvals deposited and adherences received and of the date this Protocol enters into force.
5. Any Protocol amending the Convention which has been signed but which has not entered into force at the date of entry into force of the present Protocol shall thereafter enter into force in accordance with the provisions of the present Protocol; provided, however, that, if instruments of ratification or approval or notices of adherence with respect to such Protocol have been received by the Depositary Government from three fourths of all Contracting Governments at the time of entry into force of the present Protocol, the date on which the ninety, and one hundred and twenty, day periods specified in the first sentence of paragraph 3 of Article XVII shall commence with regard to such amendment shall be the date of entry into force of the present Protocol.
Article III.
1. The original of this Protocol shall be deposited with the Government of the United States of America, which Government shall communicate certified copies thereof to all the Governments signatory or adhering to the Convention.
2. This Protocol shall bear the date on which it is opened for signature and shall remain open for signature for a period of fourteen days thereafter, following which period it shall be open for adherence.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, having deposited their respective full powers, have signed this Protocol.
DONE at Washington this sixth day of October 1970, in the English language.
For Canada: For Denmark: [TORBEN RØNNE][1] October 16, 1970 For France: [CHARLES LUCET] October 12, 1970 For the Federal Republic of Germany: [ROLF PAULS] October 9, 1970 For Iceland: [MAGNÚS V. MAGNÚSSON] October 6, 1970 For Italy: [EGIDIO ORTONA] October 16, 1970 For Japan: For Norway: [ARNE GUNNENG] October 6, 1970 For Poland: [JERZY MICHALOWSKI] October 20, 1970 For Portugal: [VASCO VIEIRA GARIN] October 20, 1970 For Romania: [CORNELIU BOGDAN] October 19, 1970 For Spain: [JAIME ARGÜELLES] 19 octubre 1970[1] For the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics: [YULI M. VORONTSOV] 20.10.70 For the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: [JOHN FREEMAN] October 15, 1970 For the United States of America: [BURDICK H. BRITTIN] October 6, 1970 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

