
 Protocol Amending The Agreement Concerning Protection Of The Salmon Stock In The Baltic Sea   
     Filename: 1972-Protocol-1962-BalticSeaSalmon.EN.txt 
 Source: RS-VI:2987     
    ﻿Protocol Amending The Agreement Concerning Protection Of The Salmon Stock In The Baltic Sea
Source: UNTS 1978, pp. 392.
The Contracting Parties to the Agreement signed at Stockholm on 20 December 1962 concerning protection of the salmon stock in the Baltic Sea, hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement", in accordance with the recommendation of 6 March 1969 of the Permanent Commission established under article 10 of the Agreement have agreed as follows:
Article I.
The first paragraph of article 5 of the Agreement shall read as follows:
"The Contracting Parties shall not permit the use of floating trawls in salmon fishing. Nor shall they permit the use, in salmon fishing by net or by hook and line, of any gear having dimensions other than those indicated below."
Article II.
The following provision shall be inserted in the Agreement as article 5 (a):
"The Contracting Parties shall not permit salmon fishing with drift nets or trolling lines in international waters within the area to which the Agreement applies between 1 June and 25 August inclusive or within the entire area to which the Agreement applies between 20 December and 10 January inclusive.
"Each Contracting Party shall issue regulations prohibiting the landing of salmon caught within those areas by drift net or trolling line during the specified periods."
Article III.
The following paragraph shall be added to article 6 of the Agreement:
"The first paragraph shall not apply to salmon caught with fixed gear inside the Swedish baseline north of 60° latitude."
Article IV.
1. The second sentence of the second paragraph of article 10 of the Agreement shall read as follows:
"The Commission shall also, on the basis of the material available, consider whether this Agreement should be amended or supplemented and, if necessary, shall submit proposals to that end to the depositary Government."
2. The following new provision shall be inserted in the Agreement as article 10(a):
"The depositary Government shall forward all proposals received in accordance with the second paragraph of article 10 to the Contracting Parties for consideration. The Contracting Parties shall inform the depositary Government of their approval of the proposal and the depositary Government shall inform the Contracting Governments of all approvals of which it receives notice, indicating the date on which notice of approval was received.
"The proposal shall take effect with respect to all the Contracting Parties four months after the date on which notice of its acceptance is received from all the Contracting Parties by the depositary Government."
Article V.
1. This Protocol shall be submitted to each of the Contracting Parties for signature and ratification.
2. This Protocol shall enter into force on the date on which all the Contracting Parties have deposited their instruments of ratification with the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden.
3. Any State acceding to the Agreement after the Protocol has been submitted for signature shall simultaneously also accede to the Protocol.
4. The Government of the Kingdom of Sweden shall notify all Governments that have signed the Agreement or acceded to it of the deposit of all instruments of ratification and of the date of entry into force of the Protocol.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, having deposited their full powers, have signed this Protocol.
DONE at Stockholm on 21 January 1972 in the Swedish, Danish and German languages, all the texts being equally authentic, in one original copy to be deposited with the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden.
[Signed] E. SCHRAM-NIELSEN 
[Signed] A. M. OBERMAYER 
[Signed] ST. BEJM 
[Signed] KRISTER WICKMAN 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

