
 Agreement Between The Governments Of Iceland, Norway And The Union Of Soviet Socialist Republics On The Regulation Of The Fishing Of The Atlanto-Scandian Herring   
     Filename: 1972-FishingAtlanto-ScandianHerring.EN.txt 
 Source: Churchill-Lay, New Directions in the Law of the Sea, vol. I, pp. 449.     
    ﻿Agreement Between The Governments Of Iceland, Norway And The Soviet Union On The Regulation Of The Fishing Of Atlanto-Scandian Herring
Source: Churchill-Lay, New Directions in the Law of the Sea, vol. I, pp. 449.
The Governments of Iceland, Norway and the Soviet Union,
Who with the object of protecting stocks have found it necessary to regulate the fishing of Atlanto-Scandian Herring,
Have agreed on the following: -
Article I
Fishing for sexually mature herring of the Norwegian spring spawning type shall be prohibited in Statistics Areas I, II and Vb of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea from the date that this Agreement enters into force.
This prohibition does not apply to fishing in connection with scientific research carried out by Fisheries Authorities with the object of obtaining information on the state of stocks and the movement of fish.
Article II
Each State Party undertakes to limit its fishing for small and fat herring in Statistics Areas I and II of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea to 45% of the amount caught in 1969 according to the said statistics.
Article III
The States Parties shall draw up regulations for the implementation of the provisions contained in Articles I and II, and shall inform each other of the steps that they have taken.
Article IV
The competent organs of the States Parties shall send each other monthly figures of catches if the total catch exceeds 100 metric tons.
REGULATION OF MARINE ACTIVITIES
Article V
This Agreement shall enter into force on the day when it has been signed by all three Parties and shall remain in force until December 31, 1972.
In witness whereof the undersigned being duly authorized by their respective governments have signed this Agreement.
Done at Moscow on February 25, 1972 in three copies in the Icelandic, Norwegian and Russian languages, all texts being equally authentic. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

