
 Agreement Between The Government Of Canada, The Government Of The Republic Of Iceland And The Government Of The Kingdom Of Norway Concerning An International Observer Scheme For Land-Based Whaling Stations In The North Atlantic Area   
     Filename: 1972-InternationalObserverSchemeLand-BasedWhalingStationsNorthAtlanticArea.EN.txt 
 Source: Canadian Treaty Series 1972, No. 11.     
    ﻿Agreement Between The Government Of Canada, The Government Of The Republic Of Iceland And The Government Of The Kingdom Of Norway Concerning An International Observer Scheme For Land-Based Whaling Stations In The North Atlantic Area
Source: Canadian Treaty Series 1972, No. 11.
The Governments of Canada, of the Republic of Iceland and of the Kingdom of Norway (hereinafter referred to as "Participating Governments") being Parties to the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling signed in Washington on December 2, 1946", (hereinafter referred to as "the Convention"),
Proceeding from their mutual concern for the conservation of whale stocks in the North Atlantic Ocean, for the maintenance of the proper productivity of whaling from land stations and to ensure that the provisions of the Convention are being followed,
Have agreed on the following scheme for International Observers (herein-after referred to as "Observers") at land stations or groups of land stations in the North Atlantic area pursuant to paragraph 1 (c) of the Schedule to the Convention dated January, 1972.
ARTICLE I
Purpose of the Agreement
The purpose of this Agreement is to establish a scheme to provide for an exchange of Observers to maintain surveillance over whaling operations at the land-based whaling stations in Canada, Iceland and Norway.
ARTICLE II
Nomination and Appointment of Observers
1. Each Participating Government shall nominate to the International Whaling Commission (hereinafter referred to as "the Commission"), a number of its nationals to act as Observers in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. The number of Observers nominated by a Participating Government shall at least equal the number of land stations or group of land stations operating in that country.
2. From the Observers so nominated the Commission, or the Chairman acting on behalf of the Commission, will appoint at least one Observer for duty at each land station or group of land stations in the North Atlantic area. Each Participating Government may advise the Commission that certain named Observers are being nominated for successive periods of duty at the same land station or group of land stations and may rotate these Observers providing that due notice is given to the Secretary of the Commission to be transmitted to the other Participating Governments. One Observer shall be on duty at each land station or group of land stations throughout the whaling season.
ARTICLE III
Duties, Rights and Functions of Observers
1. It shall be the duty of Observers to carry out surveillance at the land stations or groups of land stations in order to verify the observance of the provisions of the Convention. Observers shall at all times be responsible to the Commission and shall neither seek nor receive instructions from any authority other than the Commission.
2. Participating Governments receiving Observers shall accord them the status of senior officials and shall take appropriate measures to ensure the security, welfare, freedom and dignity of the Observers and any accompanying interpreters. In particular Participating Governments shall ensure suitable accommodation and medical care.
3. The Observers shall not be vested with any administrative power in regard to the activities of the land station or group of land stations to which they are appointed, and shall have no authority to interfere in any way with those activites.
4. Observers shall be enabled to observe freely the operations of the land station or group of land stations to which they are appointed, and shall be accorded the necessary facilities for carrying out their duties. In particular Observers shall be permitted to ascertain the species, size, sex and number of whales taken.
5. All reports required to be made, and all records and data required to be kept or supplied in accordance with the Schedule to the Convention, shall be freely and immediately available to the Observers for examination, and they shall be given all necessary explanations concerning such reports, records and data.
6. The manager, senior officials, or national inspectors, at any of the land stations or group of land stations where Observers are on duty, shall supply any information that is necessary for the discharge of the functions of the Observers.
7. When there is reasonable ground to believe that an infraction of the provisions of the Convention has taken place, it shall be brought in writing to the immediate notice both of the manager of the land station and of the senior national inspector by an Observer, who shall, if he deems it sufficiently serious, at once inform the Secretary of the Commission of the said infraction together with the explanation or comments of the manager of the land station and the senior national inspector.
8. An Observer shall draw up a report covering his observations including possible infractions of the provisions of the Convention and the Schedule which have taken place during the season, and shall submit it both to the manager of the land station and to the senior national inspector for information and such explanations and comments as they may wish to make. All such explanations and comments shall be attached to the Observer's report, which shall be transmitted to the Secretary of the Commission as soon as possible.
ARTICLE IV
Language
1. Any Observer who does not know the language of the country which operates the land station or group of land stations to which he is appointed, or the English language, must be accompanied by an interpreter who shall be of the same nationality as the Observer.
2. Where an Observer does not speak the language of the land station or group of land stations to which he is appointed but speaks English, then the land station at which he is on duty is required to provide at least one English speaking person.
ARTICLE V
Finances
Each Participating Government which nominates one or more Observers who are appointed to a land station or group of land stations by International Whaling Commission shall pay the salary and other emoluments, international travel costs, subsistence, lodging and other necessary expenses, including medical costs, of those Observers. When it is necessary that an Observer be accompanied by an interpreter, the salary and all other necessary expenses of that interpreter shall be paid by the nominating Government.
ARTICLE VI
Entry into Force and Duration
The present Agreement shall enter into force on April 15, 1972.
The Agreement shall continue in force for a period of one year. If no Participating Government gives notice three months before the expiration of the Agreement of its intention to terminate the Agreement, then it shall be extended automatically for successive periods of one year unless terminated by a Participating Government 3 months before the expiration of the current period.
Representatives of the three Governments shall consult yearly before the expiration date of the Agreement in order to review the effectiveness of the Agreement with a view to implementing possible further measures to improve the Observer Scheme.
DONE at Oslo April 7, 1972 in three copies, each in the English and French languages, both texts being equally authentic.
GEORGE K. GRANDE For the government of Canada AGNAR KL. JONSSON For the Government of the Republic of Iceland ANDREAS CAPPELEN For the Government of the Kingdom of Norway Entry into force April 15, 1972 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

