
 Agreement Between The Government Of The Union Of Soviet Socialist Republics, Iceland And Norway Concerning The Regulation Of Fishing Of The Atlanto-Scandian Herring   
     Filename: 1973-FishingAtlanto-ScandianHerring.EN.txt 
 Source: ST/LEG/SER.B/18, pp. 563; ST/LEG/SER.B/18 (Preliminary issue), pp. 144.     
    ﻿Agreement Between The Governments Of The Union Of Soviet Socialist Republics, Iceland And Norway Concerning The Regulation Of Fishing Of The Atlantic-Scandinavian Herring
Source: ST/LEG/SER.B/18, pp. 563; ST/LEG/SER.B/18 (Preliminary issue), pp. 144.
The Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Iceland and Norway, considering it necessary to regulate fishing of the Atlantic-Scandinavian herring with a view to conserving stocks of that fish,
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Fishing of the mature portion of stocks of Norwegian spring-spawning herring shall be prohibited in statistical regions I, II and Vb of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea from the time of the entry into force of this Agreement.
This prohibition shall not extend to fishing connected with scientific research being conducted by fisheries institutions for the purpose of estimating stocks and migration.
Article 2
Each of the Contracting Parties shall undertake to limit its fishing of small herring and fat herring in statistical regions I and II of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea to not more than 26 per cent of the amount which, according to available statistics, was caught by the Party concerned in 1969.
Article 3
The Contracting Parties shall take the necessary measures for the practical implementation of the provisions of articles 1 and 2 of this Agreement and shall inform each other of the measures taken.
Article 4
The competent organizations of the Contracting Parties shall send each other monthly data concerning fishing, as soon as the total catch exceeds 100 tons.
Article 5
This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of its signature by all three Parties and shall remain in force until 31 December 1973. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

