
 Convention For The Protection Of The Mediterranean Sea Against Pollution   
     Filename: 1976-ProtectionMediterraneanPollution.AA19950610.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.unep.ch/seas/main/med/medconvii.html     
    ﻿Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Region of the Mediterranean (As revised in Barcelona, Spain, on 10 June 1995)
Source: http://www.unep.ch/seas/main/med/medconvii.html, Accessed on 20021220
The Contracting Parties,
Conscious of the economic, social, health and cultural value of the marine environment of the Mediterranean Sea Area,
Fully aware of their responsibility to preserve and sustainably develop this common heritage for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations,
Recognizing the threat posed by pollution to the marine environment, its ecological equilibrium, resources and legitimate uses,
Mindful of the special hydrographic and ecological characteristics of the Mediterranean Sea Area and its particular vulnerability to pollution,
Noting that existing international conventions on the subject do not cover, in spite of the progress achieved, all aspects and sources of marine pollution and do not entirely meet the special requirements of the Mediterranean Sea Area,
Realizing fully the need for close cooperation among the States and international organizations concerned in a coordinated and comprehensive regional approach for the protection and enhancement of the marine environment in the Mediterranean Sea Area,
Fully aware that the Mediterranean Action Plan, since its adoption in 1975 and through its evolution, has contributed to the process of sustainable development in the Mediterranean region and has represented a substantive and dynamic tool for the implementation of the activities related to the Convention and its Protocols by the Contracting Parties,
Taking into account the results of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro from 4 to 14 June 1992,
Also taking into account the Declaration of Genoa of 1985, the Charter of Nicosia of 1990, the Declaration of Cairo of 1992 on Euro-Mediterranean Cooperation on the Environment within the Mediterranean Basin, the recommendations of the Conference of Casablanca of 1993, and the Declaration of Tunis of 1994 on the Sustainable Development of the Mediterranean,
Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, done at Montego Bay on 10 December 1982 and signed by many Contracting Parties,
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
GEOGRAPHICAL COVERAGE
1.For the purposes of this Convention, the Mediterranean Sea Area shall mean the maritime waters of the Mediterranean Sea proper, including its gulfs and seas, bounded to the west by the meridian passing through Cape Spartel lighthouse, at the entrance of the Straits of Gibraltar, and to the east by the southern limits of the Straits of the Dardanelles between Mehmetcik and Kumkale lighthouses.
2.The application of the Convention may be extended to coastal areas as defined by each Contracting Party within its own territory.
3.Any Protocol to this Convention may extend the geographical coverage to which that particular Protocol applies.
Article 2
DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this Convention:
(a)"Pollution" means the introduction by man, directly or indirectly, of substances or energy into the marine environment, including estuaries, which results, or is likely to result, in such deleterious effects as harm to living resources and marine life, hazards to human health, hindrance to marine activities, including fishing and other legitimate uses of the sea, impairment of quality for use of seawater and reduction of amenities.
(b)"Organization" means the body designated as responsible for carrying out secretariat functions pursuant to article 17 of this Convention.
Article 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.The Contracting Parties, when applying this Convention and its related Protocols, shall act in conformity with international law.
2.The Contracting Parties may enter into bilateral or multilateral agreements, including regional or sub?regional agreements for the promotion of sustainable development, the protection of the environment, the conservation and preservation of natural resources in the Mediterranean Sea Area, provided that such agreements are consistent with this Convention and the Protocols and conform to international law. Copies of such agreements shall be communicated to the Organization. As appropriate, Contracting Parties should make use of existing organizations, agreements or arrangements in the Mediterranean Sea Area.
3.Nothing in this Convention and its Protocols shall prejudice the rights and positions of any State concerning the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982.
4.The Contracting Parties shall take individual or joint initiatives compatible with international law through the relevant international organizations to encourage the implementation of the provisions of this Convention and its Protocols by all the non-party States.
5.Nothing in this Convention and its Protocols shall affect the sovereign immunity of warships or other ships owned or operated by a State while engaged in government non-commercial service. However, each Contracting Party shall ensure that its vessels and aircraft, entitled to sovereign immunity under international law, act in a manner consistent with this Protocol.
Article 4
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS
1.The Contracting Parties shall individually or jointly take all appropriate measures in accordance with the provisions of this Convention and those Protocols in force to which they are party to prevent, abate, combat and to the fullest possible extent eliminate pollution of the Mediterranean Sea Area and to protect and enhance the marine environment in that Area so as to contribute towards its sustainable development.
2.The Contracting Parties pledge themselves to take appropriate measures to implement the Mediterranean Action Plan and, further, to pursue the protection of the marine environment and the natural resources of the Mediterranean Sea Area as an integral part of the development process, meeting the needs of present and future generations in an equitable manner. For the purpose of implementing the objectives of sustainable development the Contracting Parties shall take fully into account the recommendations of the Mediterranean Commission on Sustainable Development established within the framework of the Mediterranean Action Plan.
3.In order to protect the environment and contribute to the sustainable development of the Mediterranean Sea Area, the Contracting Parties shall:
(a)apply, in accordance with their capabilities, the precautionary principle, by virtue of which where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation;
(b)apply the polluter pays principle, by virtue of which the costs of pollution prevention, control and reduction measures are to be borne by the polluter, with due regard to the public interest;
(c)undertake environmental impact assessment for proposed activities that are likely to cause a significant adverse impact on the marine environment and are subject to an authorization by competent national authorities;
(d)promote cooperation between and among States in environmental impact assessment procedures related to activities under their jurisdiction or control which are likely to have a significant adverse effect on the marine environment of other States or areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, on the basis of notification, exchange of information and consultation;
(e)commit themselves to promote the integrated management of the coastal zones, taking into account the protection of areas of ecological and landscape interest and the rational use of natural resources.
4.In implementing the Convention and the related Protocols, the Contracting Parties shall:
(a)adopt programmes and measures which contain, where appropriate, time limits for their completion;
(b)utilize the best available techniques and the best environmental practices and promote the application of, access to and transfer of environmentally sound technology, including clean production technologies, taking into account the social, economic and technological conditions.
5.The Contracting Parties shall cooperate in the formulation and adoption of Protocols, prescribing agreed measures, procedures and standards for the implementation of this Convention.
6.The Contracting Parties further pledge themselves to promote, within the international bodies considered to be competent by the Contracting Parties, measures concerning the implementation of programmes of sustainable development, the protection, conservation and rehabilitation of the environment and of the natural resources in the Mediterranean Sea Area.
Article 5
POLLUTION CAUSED BY DUMPING FROM SHIPS
AND AIRCRAFT OR INCINERATION AT SEA
The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to prevent, abate and to the fullest possible extent eliminate pollution of the Mediterranean Sea Area caused by dumping from ships and aircraft or incineration at sea.
Article 6
POLLUTION FROM SHIPS
The Contracting Parties shall take all measures in conformity with international law to prevent, abate, combat and to the fullest possible extent eliminate pollution of the Mediterranean Sea Area caused by discharges from ships and to ensure the effective implementation in that Area of the rules which are generally recognized at the international level relating to the control of this type of pollution.
Article 7
POLLUTION RESULTING FROM EXPLORATION AND EXPLOITATION OF THE CONTINENTAL SHELF AND THE SEABED AND ITS SUBSOIL
The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to prevent, abate, combat and to the fullest possible extent eliminate pollution of the Mediterranean Sea Area resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf and the seabed and its subsoil.
Article 8
POLLUTION FROM LAND-BASED SOURCES
The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to prevent, abate, combat and to the fullest possible extent eliminate pollution of the Mediterranean Sea Area and to draw up and implement plans for the reduction and phasing out of substances that are toxic, persistent and liable to bioaccumulate arising from land-based sources. These measures shall apply:
(a)to pollution from land-based sources originating within the territories of the Parties, and reaching the sea:
-directly from outfalls discharging into the sea or through coastal disposal;
-indirectly through rivers, canals or other watercourses, including underground watercourses, or through run-off;
(b)to pollution from land-based sources transported by the atmosphere.
Article 9
COOPERATION IN DEALING WITH POLLUTION EMERGENCIES
1.The Contracting Parties shall cooperate in taking the necessary measures for dealing with pollution emergencies in the Mediterranean Sea Area, whatever the causes of such emergencies, and reducing or eliminating damage resulting therefrom.
2.Any Contracting Party which becomes aware of any pollution emergency in the Mediterranean Sea Area shall without delay notify the Organization and, either through the Organization or directly, any Contracting Party likely to be affected by such emergency.
Article 10
CONSERVATION OF BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY
The Contracting Parties shall, individually or jointly, take all appropriate measures to protect and preserve biological diversity, rare or fragile ecosystems, as well as species of wild fauna and flora which are rare, depleted, threatened or endangered and their habitats, in the area to which this Convention applies.
Article 11
POLLUTION RESULTING FROM THE TRANSBOUNDARY MOVEMENTS OF HAZARDOUS WASTES AND THEIR DISPOSAL
The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to prevent, abate and to the fullest possible extent eliminate pollution of the environment which can be caused by transboundary movements and disposal of hazardous wastes, and to reduce to a minimum, and if possible eliminate, such transboundary movements.
Article 12
MONITORING
1.The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to establish, in close cooperation with the international bodies which they consider competent, complementary or joint programmes, including, as appropriate, programmes at the bilateral or multilateral levels, for pollution monitoring in the Mediterranean Sea Area and shall endeavour to establish a pollution monitoring system for that Area.
2.For this purpose, the Contracting Parties shall designate the competent authorities responsible for pollution monitoring within areas under their national jurisdiction and shall participate as far as practicable in international arrangements for pollution monitoring in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
3.The Contracting Parties undertake to cooperate in the formulation, adoption and implementation of such annexes to this Convention as may be required to prescribe common procedures and standards for pollution monitoring.
Article 13
SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL COOPERATION
1.The Contracting Parties undertake as far as possible to cooperate directly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other international organizations, in the fields of science and technology and to exchange data as well as other scientific information for the purpose of this Convention.
2.The Contracting Parties undertake to promote the research on, access to and transfer of environmentally sound technology, including clean production technologies, and to cooperate in the formulation, establishment and implementation of clean production processes.
3.The Contracting Parties undertake to cooperate in the provision of technical and other possible assistance in fields relating to marine pollution, with priority to be given to the special needs of developing countries in the Mediterranean region.
Article 14
ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION
1.The Contracting Parties shall adopt legislation implementing the Convention and the Protocols.
2.The Secretariat may, upon request from a Contracting Party, assist that Party in the drafting of environmental legislation in compliance with the Convention and the Protocols.
Article 15
PUBLIC INFORMATION AND PARTICIPATION
1.The Contracting Parties shall ensure that their competent authorities shall give to the public appropriate access to information on the environmental state in the field of application of the Convention and the Protocols, on activities or measures adversely affecting or likely to affect it and on activities carried out or measures taken in accordance with the Convention and the Protocols.
2.The Contracting Parties shall ensure that the opportunity is given to the public to participate in decision-making processes relevant to the field of application of the Convention and the Protocols, as appropriate.
3.The provision of paragraph 1. of this Article shall not prejudice the right of Contracting Parties to refuse, in accordance with their legal systems and applicable international regulations, to provide access to such information on the ground of confidentiality, public security or investigation proceedings, stating the reasons for such a refusal.
Article 16
LIABILITY AND COMPENSATION
The Contracting Parties undertake to cooperate in the formulation and adoption of appropriate rules and procedures for the determination of liability and compensation for damage resulting from pollution of the marine environment in the Mediterranean Sea Area.
Article 17
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
The Contracting Parties designate the United Nations Environment Programme as responsible for carrying out the following secretariat functions:
(i)To convene and prepare the meetings of Contracting Parties and conferences provided for in articles 18, 21 and 22;
(ii)To transmit to the Contracting Parties notifications, reports and other information received in accordance with articles 3, 9 and 26;
(iii)To receive, consider and reply to enquiries and information from the Contracting Parties;
(iv)To receive, consider and reply to enquiries and information from non-governmental organizations and the public when they relate to subjects of common interest or to activities carried out at the regional level; in this case, the Contracting Parties concerned shall be informed;
(v)To perform the functions assigned to it by the protocols to this Convention;
(vi)To regularly report to the Contracting Parties on the implementation of the Convention and of the Protocols;
(vii)To perform such other functions as may be assigned to it by the Contracting Parties;
(viii)To ensure the necessary coordination with other international bodies which the Contracting Parties consider competent, and in particular, to enter into such administrative arrangements as may be required for the effective discharge of the secretariat functions.
Article 18
MEETINGS OF THE CONTRACTING PARTIES
1.The Contracting Parties shall hold ordinary meetings once every two years and extraordinary meetings at any other time deemed necessary, upon the request of the Organization or at the request of any Contracting Party, provided that such requests are supported by at least two Contracting Parties.
2.It shall be the function of the meetings of the Contracting Parties to keep under review the implementation of this Convention and the protocols and, in particular:
(i)To review generally the inventories carried out by Contracting Parties and competent international organizations on the state of marine pollution and its effects in the Mediterranean Sea Area;
(ii)To consider reports submitted by the Contracting Parties under article 26;
(iii)To adopt, review and amend as required the annexes to this Convention and to the protocols, in accordance with the procedure established in article 23;
(iv)To make recommendations regarding the adoption of any additional protocols or any amendments to this Convention or the protocols in accordance with the provisions of articles 21 and 22;
(v)To establish working groups as required to consider any matters related to this Convention and the protocols and annexes;
(vi)To consider and undertake any additional action that may be required for the achievement of the purposes of this Convention and the protocols.
(vii)To approve the Programme Budget.
Article 19
BUREAU
1.The Bureau of the Contracting Parties shall be composed of representatives of the Contracting Parties elected by the Meetings of the Contracting Parties. In electing the members of the Bureau, the Meetings of the Contracting Parties shall observe the principle of equitable geographical distribution.
2.The functions of the Bureau and the terms and conditions upon which it shall operate shall be set in the Rules of Procedure adopted by the Meetings of the Contracting Parties.
Article 20
OBSERVERS
1.The Contracting Parties may decide to admit as observers at their meetings and conferences:
(a)any State which is not a Contracting Party to the Convention;
(b)any international governmental organization or any non-governmental organization the activities of which are related to the Convention.
2.Such observers may participate in meetings without the right to vote and may present any information or report relevant to the objectives of the Convention.
3.The conditions for the admission and participation of observers shall be established in the Rules of Procedure adopted by the Contracting Parties.
Article 21
ADOPTION OF ADDITIONAL PROTOCOLS
1.The Contracting Parties, at a diplomatic conference, may adopt additional protocols to this Convention pursuant to paragraph 5 of article 4.
2.A diplomatic conference for the purpose of adopting additional protocols shall be convened by the Organization at the request of two thirds of the Contracting Parties.
Article 22
AMENDMENT OF THE CONVENTION OR PROTOCOLS
1.Any Contracting Party to this Convention may propose amendments to the Convention. Amendments shall be adopted by a diplomatic conference which shall be convened by the Organization at the request of two thirds of the Contracting Parties.
2.Any Contracting Party to this Convention may propose amendments to any protocol. Such amendments shall be adopted by a diplomatic conference which shall be convened by the Organization at the request of two thirds of the Contracting Parties to the protocol concerned.
3.Amendments to this Convention shall be adopted by a three-fourths majority vote of the Contracting Parties to the Convention which are represented at the diplomatic conference and shall be submitted by the Depositary for acceptance by all Contracting Parties to the Convention. Amendments to any protocol shall be adopted by a three-fourths majority vote of the Contracting Parties to such protocol which are represented at the diplomatic conference and shall be submitted by the Depositary for acceptance by all Contracting Parties to such protocol.
4.Acceptance of amendments shall be notified to the Depositary in writing. Amendments adopted in accordance with paragraph 3 of this article shall enter into force between Contracting Parties having accepted such amendments on the thirtieth day following the receipt by the Depositary of notification of their acceptance by at least three fourths of the Contracting Parties to this Convention or to the protocol concerned, as the case may be.
5.After the entry into force of an amendment to this Convention or to a protocol, any new Contracting Party to this Convention or such protocol shall become a Contracting Party to the instrument as amended.
Article 23
ANNEXES AND AMENDMENTS TO ANNEXES
1.Annexes to this Convention or to any protocol shall form an integral part of the Convention or such protocol, as the case may be.
2.Except as may be otherwise provided in any protocol, the following procedure shall apply to the adoption and entry into force of any amendments to annexes to this Convention or to any protocol, with the exception of amendments to the annex on arbitration:
(i)Any Contracting Party may propose amendments to the annexes to this Convention or to any protocol at the meetings referred to in article 18;
(ii)Such amendments shall be adopted by a three-fourths majority vote of the Contracting Parties to the instrument in question;
(iii)The Depositary shall without delay communicate the amendments so adopted to all Contracting Parties;
(iv)Any Contracting Party that is unable to approve an amendment to the annexes to this Convention or to any protocol shall so notify in writing the Depositary within a period determined by the Contracting Parties concerned when adopting the amendment;
(v)The Depositary shall without delay notify all Contracting Parties of any notification received pursuant to the preceding sub-paragraph;
(vi)On expiry of the period referred to in sub-paragraph (iv) above, the amendment to the annex shall become effective for all Contracting Parties to this Convention or to the protocol concerned which have not submitted a notification in accordance with the provisions of that sub-paragraph.
3.The adoption and entry into force of a new annex to this Convention or to any protocol shall be subject to the same procedure as for the adoption and entry into force of an amendment to an annex in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of this article, provided that, if any amendment to the Convention or the protocol concerned is involved, the new annex shall not enter into force until such time as the amendment to the Convention or the protocol concerned enters into force.
4.Amendments to the annex on arbitration shall be considered to be amendments to this Convention and shall be proposed and adopted in accordance with the procedures set out in article 22 above.
Article 24
RULES OF PROCEDURE AND FINANCIAL RULES
1.The Contracting Parties shall adopt rules of procedure for their meetings and conferences envisaged in articles 18, 21 and 22 above.
2.The Contracting Parties shall adopt financial rules, prepared in consultation with the Organization, to determine, in particular, their financial participation in the Trust Fund.
Article 25
SPECIAL EXERCISE OF VOTING RIGHT
Within the areas of their competence, the European Economic Community and any regional economic grouping referred to in article 30 of this Convention shall exercise their right to vote with a number of votes equal to the number of their member States which are Contracting Parties to this Convention and to one or more protocols; the European Economic Community and any grouping as referred to above shall not exercise their right to vote in cases where the member States concerned exercise theirs, and conversely.
Article 26
REPORTS
1.The Contracting Parties shall transmit to the Organization reports on:
(a)the legal, administrative or other measures taken by them for the implementation of this Convention, the Protocols and of the recommendations adopted by their meetings;
(b)the effectiveness of the measures referred to in subparagraph (a) and problems encountered in the implementation of the instruments as mentioned above.
2.The reports shall be submitted in such form and at such intervals as the Meetings of Contracting Parties may determine.
Article 27
COMPLIANCE CONTROL
The meetings of the Contracting Parties shall, on the basis of periodical reports referred to in Article 26 and any other report submitted by the Contracting Parties, assess the compliance with the Convention and the Protocols as well as the measures and recommendations. They shall recommend, when appropriate, the necessary steps to bring about full compliance with the Convention and the Protocols and promote the implementation of the decisions and recommendations.
Article 28
SETTLEMENTS OF DISPUTES
1.In case of a dispute between Contracting Parties as to the interpretation or application of this Convention or the protocols, they shall seek a settlement of the dispute through negotiation or any other peaceful means of their own choice.
2.If the Parties concerned cannot settle their dispute through the means mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the dispute shall upon common agreement be submitted to arbitration under the conditions laid down in annex A to this Convention.
3.Nevertheless, the Contracting Parties may at any time declare that they recognize as compulsory ipso facto and without special agreement, in relation to any other Party accepting the same obligation, the application of the arbitration procedure in conformity with the provisions of annex A. Such declaration shall be notified in writing to the Depositary, who shall communicate it to the other Parties.
Article 29
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE CONVENTION
AND PROTOCOLS
1.No one may become a Contracting Party to this Convention unless it becomes at the same time a Contracting Party to at least one of the protocols. No one may become a Contracting Party to a protocol unless it is, or becomes at the same time, a Contracting Party to this Convention.
2.Any protocol to this Convention shall be binding only on the Contracting Parties to the protocol in question.
3.Decisions concerning any protocol pursuant to articles 18, 22 and 23 of this Convention shall be taken only by the Parties to the protocol concerned.
Article 30
SIGNATURE
This Convention, the Protocol for the Prevention of Pollution of the Mediterranean Sea by Dumping from Ships and Aircraft and the Protocol concerning cooperation in Combating Pollution of the Mediterranean Sea by Oil and Other Harmful Substances in Cases of Emergency shall be open for signature in Barcelona on 16 February 1976 and in Madrid from 17 February 1976 to 16 February 1977 by any State invited as a participant in the Conference of Plenipotentiaries of the Coastal States of the Mediterranean Region on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea, held in Barcelona from 2 to 16 February 1976, and by any State entitled to sign any protocol in accordance with the provisions of such protocol. They shall also be open until the same date for signature by the European Economic Community and by any similar regional economic grouping at least one member of which is a coastal State of the Mediterranean Sea Area and which exercise competence in fields covered by this Convention, as well as by any protocol affecting them.
Article 31
RATIFICATION, ACCEPTANCE OR APPROVAL
This Convention and any protocol thereto shall be subject to ratification, acceptance, or approval. Instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the Government of Spain, which will assume the functions of Depositary.
Article 32
ACCESSION
1.As from 17 February 1977, the present Convention, the Protocol for the Prevention of Pollution of the Mediterranean Sea by Dumping from Ships and Aircraft, and the Protocol concerning Cooperation in Combating Pollution of the Mediterranean Sea by Oil and other Harmful Substances in Cases of Emergency shall be open for accession by the States, by the European Economic Community and by any grouping as referred to in article 30.
2.After the entry into force of the Convention and of any protocol, any State not referred to in article 30 may accede to this Convention and to any protocol, subject to prior approval by three fourths of the Contracting Parties to the protocol concerned.
3.Instruments of accession shall be deposited with the Depositary.
Article 33
ENTRY INTO FORCE
1.This Convention shall enter into force on the same date as the protocol first entering into force.
2.The Convention shall also enter into force with regard to the States, the European Economic Community and any regional economic grouping referred to in article 30 if they have complied with the formal requirements for becoming Contracting Parties to any other protocol not yet entered into force.
3.Any protocol to this Convention, except as otherwise provided in such protocol, shall enter into force on the thirtieth day following the date of deposit of at least six instruments of ratification, acceptance, or approval of, or accession to such protocol by the Parties referred to in article 30.
4.Thereafter, this Convention and any protocol shall enter into force with respect to any State, the European Economic Community and any regional economic grouping referred to in article 30 on the thirtieth day following the date of deposit of the instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
Article 34
WITHDRAWAL
1.At any time after three years from the date of entry into force of this Convention, any Contracting Party may withdraw from this Convention by giving written notification of withdrawal.
2.Except as may be otherwise provided in any protocol to this Convention, any Contracting Party may, at any time after three years from the date of entry into force of such protocol, withdraw from such protocol by giving written notification of withdrawal.
3.Withdrawal shall take effect 90 days after the date on which notification of withdrawal is received by the Depositary.
4.Any Contracting Party which withdraws from this Convention shall be considered as also having withdrawn from any protocol to which it was a Party.
5.Any Contracting Party which, upon its withdrawal from a protocol, is no longer a Party to any protocol to this Convention, shall be considered as also having withdrawn from this Convention.
Article 35
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DEPOSITARY
1.The Depositary shall inform the Contracting Parties, any other Party referred to in article 30, and the Organization:
(i)Of the signature of this Convention and of any protocol thereto, and of the deposit of instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession in accordance with articles 30, 31 and 32;
(ii)Of the date on which the Convention and any protocol will come into force in accordance with the provisions of article 33;
(iii)Of notifications of withdrawal made in accordance with article 34;
(iv)Of the amendments adopted with respect to the Convention and to any protocol, their acceptance by the Contracting Parties and the date of entry into force of those amendments in accordance with the provisions of article 22;
(v)Of the adoption of new annexes and of the amendment of any annex in accordance with article 23;
(vi)Of declarations recognizing as compulsory the application of the arbitration procedure mentioned in paragraph 3 of article 28.
2.The original of this Convention and of any protocol thereto shall be deposited with the Depositary, the Government of Spain, which shall send certified copies thereof to the Contracting Parties, to the Organization, and to the Secretary-General of the United Nations for registration and publication in accordance with Article 102 of the United Nations Charter.
IN WITNESS THEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized by their respective Governments, have signed this Convention.
DONE at Barcelona on 16 February 1976 in a single copy in the Arabic, English, French and Spanish languages, the four texts being equally authoritative.
ANNEX A
ARBITRATION
Article 1
Unless the Parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the arbitration procedure shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this annex.
Article 2
1.At the request addressed by one Contracting Party to another Contracting Party in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 or paragraph 3 of article 28 of the Convention, an arbitral tribunal shall be constituted. The request for arbitration shall state the subject matter of the application including, in particular, the articles of the Convention or the protocol, the interpretation or application of which is in dispute.
2.The claimant party shall inform the Organization that it has requested the setting up of an arbitral tribunal, stating the name of the other Party to the dispute and articles of the Convention or the protocols the interpretation or application of which is in its opinion in dispute. The Organization shall forward the information thus received to all Contracting Parties to the Convention.
Article 3
The arbitral tribunal shall consist of three members: each of the Parties to the dispute shall appoint an arbitrator; the two arbitrators so appointed shall designate by common agreement the third arbitrator who shall be the chairman of the tribunal. The latter shall not be a national of one of the Parties to the dispute, nor have his usual place of residence in the territory of one of these Parties, nor be employed by any of them, nor have dealt with the case in any other capacity.
Article 4
1.If the chairman of the arbitral tribunal has not been designated within two months of the appointment of the second arbitrator, the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall, at the request of the more diligent Party, designate him within a further two months' period.
2.If one of the Parties to the dispute does not appoint an arbitrator within two months of receipt of the request, the other Party may inform the Secretary-General of the United Nations who shall designate the chairman of the arbitral tribunal within a further two months' period. Unpon designation, the chairman of the arbitral tribunal shall request the Party which has not appointed an arbitrator to do so within two months. After such period, he shall inform the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall make this appointment within a further two months' period.
Article 5
1.The arbitral tribunal shall decide according to the rules of international law and, in particular, those of this Convention and the protocols concerned.
2.Any arbitral tribunal constituted under the provisions of this annex shall draw up its own rules of procedure.
Article 6
1.The decisions of the arbitral tribunal, both on procedure and on substance, shall be taken by majority vote of its members.
2.The tribunal may take all appropriate measures in order to establish the facts. It may, at the request of one of the Parties, recommend essential interim measures of protection.
3.If two or more arbitral tribunals constituted under the provisions of this annex are seized of requests with identical or similar subjects, they may inform themselves of the procedures for establishing the facts and take them into account as far as possible.
4.The Parties to the dispute shall provide all facilities necessary for the effective conduct of the proceedings.
5.The absence or default of a Party to the dispute shall not constitute an impediment to the proceedings.
Article 7
1.The award of the arbitral tribunal shall be accompanied by a statement of reasons. It shall be final and binding upon the Parties to the dispute.
2.Any dispute which may arise between the Parties concerning the interpretation or execution of the award may be submitted by the more diligent Party to the arbitral tribunal which made the award or, if the latter cannot be seized thereof, to another arbitral tribunal constituted for this purpose in the same manner as the first.
Article 8
The European Economic Community and any regional economic grouping referred to in article 30 of the Convention, like any Contracting Party to the Convention, are empowered to appear as complainants or as respondents before the arbitral tribunal. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

