
 Convention On The Game Hunting Formalities Applicable To Tourists Entering Countries In The Conseil De L&#039; Entente   
     Filename: 1976-GameHuntingTouristsConseilDeEntente.EN.txt 
 Source: Text provided by courtesy of the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources, Morges, Switzerland.     
    ﻿Convention On The Game Hunting Formalities Applicable To Tourists Entering Countries In The Conseil De L'entente
Source: Text provided by courtesy of the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources, Morges, Switzerland.
The States of the Conseil de l'Entente, wishing to promote international tourism, have decided to conclude a convention with a view to harmonising the game-hunting formalities applicable to tourists in their territories and have agreed the following:
TITLE I - CATEGORIES OF GAME-HUNTING
Article 1
Game-hunting by foreign visitors in the States of the Conseil de l'Entente consists of big and medium game-hunting.
By foreign visitors is meant one or more persons whose stay in one State does not exceed three months.
By big and medium game-hunting is meant the killing of animals the list of which is given in the regulations of each State.
TITLE II - TOURISTS' HUNTING LICENCES
Article 2
There are two categories of licence for game-hunting by tourists:
- Big game licence
- Medium game licence
Article 3
The big game licence is valid for a period of 30 days. The medium game licence is valid for a period of 20 days.
Article 4
Applicants wishing to obtain these game-hunting licences must:
- be 18 years of age at least
- have a gun licence or use the services of an approved hunting guide
- fill in an application form in triplicate and provide three identity photographs
- take out a "hunting" insurance for individual huntsmen.
Article 5
Applications for hunting licences should be sent to the government department responsible for issuing licences. Blank application forms can be had from the embassies and consulates of the member countries.
Article 6
The fees for the two types of hunting licence are as follows:
- big game: F CFA 40,000
- medium game: F CFA 25,000
TITLE III - CHARGES PAYABLE FOR ANIMALS KILLED
Article 7
After the skins and trophies have been checked these charges shall be paid to the responsible government department of the State in which the licence was issued.
Article 8
A complete list of partially protected animals with the applicable charges and quota allowed is given on each country's hunting licences.
TITLE IV - TROPHIES AND HUNTING SKINS
Article 9
An authorisation to export skins and hunting trophies is given free of charge provided that they are accompanied by a certificate of origin and a health certificate.
In the absence of these documents, the skins or trophies will be refused or confiscated by the responsible authority.
Article 10
Authorisations to export trophies and skins are issued by the responsible authorities only after satisfying themselves that the nature and number of skins and trophies to be ex-ported complies with the hunting quotas.
Article 11
The possession of trophies and skins is deemed to be legal only to the extent that a tourist can prove the fact, either by a properly executed document of sale or by a valid game-killing authorisation.
Article 12
Failing production of these documents, the possession of trophies and skins is regarded as illegal slaughtering and punishable as such.
Article 13
The penalties incurred for hunting in contravention of the law or regulations, or of non-compliance with these arrangements are those set out in the national codes.
TITLE V - GAME-HUNTING GUNS
Article 14
Authorised game-hunting guns shall be those laid down in national regulations.
TITLE VI - HUNTING GUIDES
Article 15
Anyone organising, on other people's behalf, expeditions for hunting or photographing wild animals for a consideration is deemed to be a hunting guide.
Article 16
A hunting guide must:
- be at least 25 years old
- hold a valid guide's licence
- have a perfect knowledge of the list of partly protected animals and their slaughtering quotas
- have a perfect knowledge of the list of wholly protected animals
- know the various charges for killing game
- be familiar with hunting legislation
- have the necessary material resources
- have some practical knowledge of first-aid
- not have been given any sentence that could imply the loss of his civil rights.
Article 17
A hunting guide is required to take out an insurance policy with an approved insurance company providing full third-party coverage for himself, any learner-guides that are with him and any staff he employs, for any accident or damage that might be suffered by his clients during the expedition.
Article 18
A hunting guide is responsible, under civil law, for violations of the hunting and fauna conservation regulations committed by his clients during hunting expeditions which the guide leads or accompanies.
Article 19
Would-be hunting guides have to pass a qualifying test the conditions of which are established by each State in accordance with the provisions of
TITLE VII
Article 20
This Convention applies solely in those States of the Conseil de l'Entente where hunting is allowed.
Yamoussoukro, 26th February 1976 Entry into force January 1, 1977 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

