
 North American Plant Protection Convention   
     Filename: 1976-InternationalPlantProtectionConvention-RegionalNorthAmerica.EN.txt 
 Source: Ruster and Simma, Volume XX:10.364     
    ﻿North American Plant Protection Agreement
Source: Ruster and Simma, Volume XX:10.364
Having as a common purpose the strengthening of intergovernmental cooperation in plant quarantine and plant protection in North America in order to prevent the introduction and spread of plant pests and noxious weeds and to foster the preservation of plant resources of North America:
The parties to this Agreement agree as follows:
1. For the purpose of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
A. "Plant Pest" means any living stage of: any insects, mites, nematodes, slugs, snails, protozoa, or other invertebrate animals, bacteria, fungi, other parasitic plants or reproductive parts thereof, viruses, o any organisms similar to or allied with any of the foregoing, or any infectious substances, which can directly or indirectly injure or cause disease or damage in any plants or parts thereof, or any processed, manufactured, or other products of plants.
B. "Living Stage" includes the egg, pupal, and larval stages as well as any other living stage.
C. "Noxious Weed" means any living stage, including but not limited to, seeds and reproductive parts, of any parasitic or other plant of a kind, or subdivision of a kind, which is of foreign origin, is new to or not widely prevalent in the United States, Canada, or Mexico, and can directly or indirectly injure crops, other useful plants, livestock, or poultry or other interests of agriculture, including irrigation, or navigation or the fish and wildlife resources of the United States, Canada or Mexico or the public health.
2. The Parties to this Agreement shall cooperate in preventing the introduction and spread of plant pests in North America by:
A. Keeping under constant review new records and outbreaks of plant pests:
B. Monitoring the movement and spread of established plants pests of concern to the parties of this Agreement:
C. Reviewing progress in detection, eradication and control of plant pests of crops of major importance in North America:
D. Reviewing plant quarantine measures adopted by participating governments and proposing revisions to existing plant quarantine measures and establishment of new measures moving toward uniform plant quarantine regulations:
E. Examining and studying problems in plant quarantine and closely related fields:
F. Keeping parties informed of plant quarantine and protection matters of mutual concern:
G. Promoting arrangements for the training or technical personnel in the fields of plant quarantine and plant protection:
H. Exchanging research and development information relating to plant pests and their control:
I. Adopting compatible phytosanitary certificates patterned after the model certificate as proposed by the International Plant Protection Convention:
J. Jointly participating in programs of research and methods development relating to plant protection and quarantine: and
K. Taking such other actions as are mutually agreed upon.
3. To facilitate consultation regarding the cooperation regarding the cooperation contemplated in this Agreement representative of the agencies specified in paragraph 3 of this Agreement will meet annually at a North American Plant Protection Agreement (NAPPA) Workshop. The propose of such Workshops is to permit exchange of information relating to the implementation of this Agreement and to provide a forum for the discussion of particular problems which may arise in this field.
4. The agencies with principal responsibility in the implementation of this Agreement designated by the parties to this Agreement respectively shall be:
A. for the United States- the United States Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
B. for Canada- the Canada Department of Agriculture, Plant Quarantine Division: and
C. for Mexico- Secretaria de Agricultura y Ganaderia de Mexico, Direccion General de Sanidad Vegetad:
5. This Agreement may be amended at any time by agreement of the parties.
6. This Agreement shall enter into force upon date of signature and shall continue in force indefinitely but may be discontinued at the request of any of the parties. Request for termination shall be submitted in writing to the other parties at least thirty (30) days prior to the desired effective date of termination.
DONE in triplicate in the English and Spanish languages, each being equally authentic, at Yosemite California this thirteenth day of October, 1976.
FOR THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:
Dr. Francis J. Mulhern, Administrator
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
Unites States Department of Agriculture
FOR CANADA:
Dr. Donald S. Maclachlan, Director
plant Quarantine Division, Production and Marketing Branch
Agriculture Canada
FOR MEXICO:
ING. Benjamin Ortega Cantero, Director General
Direccion General de Sanidad Vegetai
Secretaria de Agricultura y Ganaderia 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

