
 Supplementary Agreement To The Agreement Concerning the International Commission for the Protection of the Rhine Against Pollution   
     Filename: 1976-SupplementaryAgreement-1963-RhineCommission.EN.txt 
 Source: Unofficial     
    ﻿Supplementary Agreement to the 1963 Agreement on the International Commission for the Protection of the Rhine Against Pollution
Source: Unofficial Text
The European Economic Community shall become a Contracting Party to the Agreement concerning the International Commission for the Protection of the Rhine against Pollution and the Protocol of signature attached thereto (hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement" signed in Berne on 29 April 1963, from the date of the entry into force of this Additional Agreement. (Article i)." 
The additional Agreement was to enter into force at the same time as the Convention for the Protection of the Rhine against Chemical Pollution, signed at Bonn on the same day.
According to Article 3 of the Supplementary Agreement 
"1. The delegation which holds the chair of the commission at the time of the entry into force of the Additional Agreement shall continue to preside until its three-year period of Office expires.
"2. The details of the subsequent exercise of the chairmanship of the Commission by the delegations shall be worked out by the Commission in the light of its new composition and before the expiry of the period of office referred to in paragraph 1."
Signed at Bonn on 3 December 1976 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

