
 Amendments To The Constitution Of The European Commission For The Control Of Foot And Mouth Disease   
     Filename: 1977-Amendments-1953-EuropeanCommissionFootMouthDisease.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.fao.org/docrep/meeting/011/ag396e/ag396e19.htm     
    ﻿Amendments To The Constitution And Financial Regulations Of The European Commission For The Control Of Foot-And-Mouth Disease 
Source: http://www.fao.org/docrep/meeting/011/ag396e/ag396e00.htm, downloaded 20070625 and http://www.fao.org/docrep/meeting/011/ag396e/ag396e19.htm, downloaded 20070625. (Resolution 5/72 adopted by the Commission At Its Twenty-Second Session and by the Council Of FAO at its Seventy-second Session, Rome, November 1977).
THE COUNCIL,
Recalling that the Conference at its Seventeenth Session (1973) adopted Resolution 10/73 extending the eligibility for participation of Non-Member States in FAO bodies and meetings to States that were members of any of the United Nations Specialized Agencies or the International Atomic Energy Agency,
Recalling further that by Resolution 26/75, the Eighteenth Session of the Conference (1975), amended Article VI, paragraph 3 of the Constitution in order to eliminate the requirement of confirmation by the Conference or Council of the Rules of Procedure of FAO Statutory Bodies,
Considering that in pursuance of the aforementioned Resolutions, the European Commission for the Control of Foot-and-Mouth Disease and the Desert Locust Control Commissions for the Near East, for North-West Africa and for South-West Asia, respectively, established under Article XIV of the Constitution have adopted amendments to the relevant provisions of their constituent agreements,
Considering further that in accordance with Article XIV.4 of the Constitution of the European Commission for the Control of Foot-and-Mouth Disease; Article XIII.3 of the Agreements establishing the Desert Locust Control Commissions for the Near East and North-West Africa and Article XIV.3 of the Desert Locust Control Commission for South-West Asia, amendments to these Agreements require the approval of the Council,
Noting that the amended text of Article VIII of the Constitution of the European Commission for the Control of Foot-and-Mouth Disease, provides that the Financial Regulations of the Commission and amendments thereto are subject to confirmation by the Council; and that the Commission has adopted a consequential amendment to Rule VII of its Financial Regulations,
1. Approves the amendments to the Constitution of the European Commission for the Control of Foot-and-Mouth Disease and to the Agreements for the establishment of the Commissions for Controlling the Desert Locust in the Near East, North-West Africa and South-West Asia as set forth in Appendices K to N to this Report.
2. Confirms the amendment to Regulation VII of the Financial Regulations of the European Commission for the Control of Foot-and-Mouth Disease as shown in Appendix K,
APPENDIX K
Amendments To The Constitution And Financial Regulations Of The European Commission For The Control Of Foot-And-Mouth Disease As Adopted By The Commission At Its Twenty-Second Session (Rome, 29 March - 1 April 1977)
Proposed Amendments [Words capitalized to be added; words in square brackets to be deleted.]
ARTICLE 1
Membership
1. Membership in the European Commission for the Control of Foot-and-Mouth Disease (hereinafter referred to as "the Commission") shall be open to such European Member Nation of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, and to such European Member Nations of the International Office of Epizootics that are Members of the United Nations, as accept this Constitution in accordance with the provisions of Article XV. The Commission may, by a two-thirds majority of the membership of the Commission, admit to membership such other European [Nations] STATES that are Members of the United Nations, ANY OF ITS SPECIALIZED AGENCIES OR THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY as have submitted an application for membership and a declaration made in a formal instrument that THEY [it] accept[s] the obligations of this Constitution as in force at the time of admission.
ARTICLE VIII
Rules and Regulations
Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the Commission may, by a majority of two-thirds of its membership, adopt and amend its own Rules of Procedure and Financial Regulations, which shall be in conformity with the General Rules and Financial Regulations of the Organization. The Rules [and Regulations] of the Commission and any amendments thereto shall come into force upon approval by the Director-General of the Organization, [subject to confirmation by the Council of the Organization] THE FINANCIAL REGULATIONS AND AMENDMENTS THERETO BEING SUBJECT TO CONFIR-MATION BY THE COUNCIL OF THE ORGANIZATION.
ARTICLE IX
Observers
2. [Nations] STATES which, while not Members of the Commission nor Members or Associate Members of the Organization, are Members of the United Nations, ANY OF ITS SPECIALIZED AGENCIES OR THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY may, upon request and subject to the concurrence of the Commission through its Chairman and to the provisions relating to the granting of observer status to nations adopted by the Conference of the Organization, be invited to attend in an observer capacity sessions of the Commission.
ARTICLE XV
Acceptance
2. Membership of [Nations] STATES that are eligible for membership under Article I, but are neither Members of the Organization nor of the Office, shall become effective on the date on which the Commission approves the application for membership in conformity with the provisions of Article I. The Director-General shall inform each of the Members of the Commission of the approval of any application for membership.
Financial Regulations
Regulation VII
7.1 These Regulations may be amended by the Commission in the [same] manner [as] provided for [amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Commission] UNDER ARTICLE VIII OF THE CONSTITUTION. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

