
 Amendment To The Convention Placing The International Poplar Commission Within The Framework Of The Food And Agriculture Organization Of The United Nations   
     Filename: 1977-Amendment-1959-InternationalPoplarCommissionWithinFAO.EN.txt 
 Source: UNTS, vol. 814, pp. 478.     
    ﻿Amendments To The International Poplar Convention Of November 19, 1959, As Amended, Placing The International Poplar Commission Within The Framework Of FAO
Source: UNTS, vol. 814, pp. 478.
ARTICLE VI, PARAGRAPH 2
"The Director-General of the Organization, in consultation with the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Commission, shall convene a regular session of the Commission once every [two] four [1] years. Special sessions of the Commission may be convened by the Director-General in consultation with the Chairman of the Executive Committee, or if requested by the Commission, or by at least one third of the Member Nations of the Commission."
ARTICLE VII, PARAGRAPH 2
"Twelve members of the Executive Committee shall be elected by the Commission from among individuals nominated by Member Nations of the Commission upon the suggestion of their respective National Poplar Commissions. Members of the Executive Committee shall be appointed in their personal capacity because of their special competence, and shall serve for a period of [six] four years. Members of the Executive Committee shall be eligible for re-election."
ARTICLE II, PARAGRAPH 2
"The Commission may, by a two-thirds majority of its membership, admit to membership such other [Nations] States that are Members of the United Nations, any of its Specialized Agencies or the International Atomic Energy Agency as have submitted an application for membership and a declaration made in n formal instrument that they accept this Convention as in force at the time of admission."
ARTICLE XI
"The Commission may, by a majority of two-thirds of its member-ship, adopt and amend its own rules of procedure, which shall he consistent with the General Rules of the Organization. The Rules of the Commission and any amendment thereto shall come into force upon approval by the Director-General of the Organization, and as from the date of such approval [subject to confirmation by the Council]."
Entry into force November 30, 1977
Source: Treaties and Other International Acts Series (TIAS) 9130.
Note: The Amendment of October 30, 1967 is reproduced supra in vol. XX, pp. 10309.
'The bracketed portions reflect deletions from, and the underlined portions reflect additions to, the text of the convention. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

