
 Agreement On The Joint Regulations On Fauna And Flora   
     Filename: 1977-JointRegulationsFaunaFlora.EN.txt 
 Source: B7 p. 977:9     
    ﻿Agreement on the Joint Regulations on Fauna and Flora
Source: B7 p. 977:9
PREAMBLE:
The Governments:
of the United Republic of Cameroon
of the Republic of Niger
of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
of the Republic of Chad.
With view to reach the objectives of the Convention and Statute of 22nd May, 1964 establishing the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC);
Conscious of the economical, and nutritional importance as well as the ecological meaning of the Member States and their values in the scientific, educational, recreational and aesthetic fields;
Determined to promote measures ensuring the conservation of the renewable natural resources in the interest of the populations of their states and to secure the development and the rational management of the said resources on the basis of an optimal permanent profit;
Recognizing the importance and the urgency to ensure the protection of animal and vegetal species threatened or in danger of dying out so as to ensure the preservation of as many natural habitats as possible, whether unique of representative and to regulate the trade of specimens and trophies;
HAVE AGREED ON THE FOLLOWING :
A - TERRESTRIAL FAUNA
ARTICLE 1: Protected species.
The member States will collaborate with the Commission to prepare a joint list of protected species based on the annex of the African Convention of 1968 on the preservation of nature and natural resources, permitting this the adoption of joint regulations aiming at establishing a common policy and especially eliminating differences existing between the Member States on the degree of protection enjoyed by common species on their respective territories.
ARTICLE 2: Traffic of specimens and Trophies.
On the basis of a common list of protected species and in accordance with Article 1, the Commission shall establish a common regulation in order to:
(a) prevent the trade of captured or illegally killed, specimens and trophies obtained illegally;
(b) recommend to member States the use of a common certificate for the transport or transit of the specimens and trophies on their territories;
(c) this certificate can be delivered only when the specimens and trophies are legally obtained.
ARTICLE 3: Hunting of reptiles.
No one shall be authorized to hunt reptiles described in the table below having dimensions inferior to the one indicated in the table:
Description of the Reptiles - Dimensions [Editor's Change]
Varanian (Varanus griseus) (Varanus niloticus) - 20 cm ventral width
Python (python sebae) - 1.5 m total length
Crocodile (crocodilia) - 20 cm ventral width measured between the horny scales on the two sides.
ARTICLE 4:
All hunting offences especially poaching shall be punished in each member State according to the regulations in force in the State concerned.
ARTICLE 5: Integral fauna and flora reserves.
In view of preserving the fragile ecosystem species around Lake Chad, the Commission shall proceed, without delay, to study the classification of integral fauna and flora reserves in which the protective measures laid down in the harmonized regulations of members States shall be applied.
B - AQUATIC FAUNA
ARTICLE 6: Methods and means of fishing.
The member States agree under a joint regulation to take the necessary measures to forbid the use of the fishing methods listed:
(a) firme-arms and explosives, electrical appliances, poison, drugs, noxious products or polluting material;
(b) construction of dykes, dams or other obstacles to fish migrations;
(c) furthermore, they shall see to the regulations of fishing net dimensions; not less than 35 mm knot to knot.
Member States also agree to forbid or regulate the use of fishing gear and fishing methods in certain areas or during certain times of the year.
ARTICLE 7:
However these methods can be used for scientific purposes on authorisation of the competent department:
ARTICLE 8: Improvement of fish resources.
The member States agree to spare no effort to improve:
the fishing means and methods;
fish processing;
the conservation of fish products;
fish marketing; system of fishery co-operatives.
ARTICLE 9: Fishing Statistics.
Member States agree to organizing and operating services specializing in the collection, analysis and distribution of statistical data on fisheries, in order to have precise idea of fish potential and its rational exploitation in definite places.
ARTICLE 10: Import and Export of Fish.
Member States shall regulate the import or export of live fish, or their eggs, or other aquatic animals.
ARTICLE 11: Pollution.
Member States shall undertake to forbid pollution of fishing waters by any substance, and untreated waste products from flora.
C - FLORA
ARTICLE 12: Customary Rights.
Customary rights of use enjoyed by farmers should be limited to the secondary forestry products and food products. Article 12 will be afterwards examined by experts and lawyers after customary analyses and regulations in each Member State.
ARTICLE 13: Common Regulation.
Member States shall establish a common regulation to:
(a) forbid or regulate bush fires, cutting away of branches and mutilation;
(b) forbid cultivation or other works in wooded lands or on soils under restoration;
(c) forbid or regulate the import or export of vegetal species.
ARTICLE 14: Species.
The varieties which appear on the list annexed to this agreement should be protected and regenerated.
ARTICLE 15: Jurisdiction.
This Agreement is valid exclusively within the Conventional Basin.
In witness whereof, we, the heads of state of the Lake Chad Basin Commission have signed this agreement.
Done at enugu, this 3rd day of December, 1977.
ANNEX
Scientific Names [TAB] Common Names {Editor's Change]
Acacia senegal [TAB] Gum Tree
Butyrospermum parkii [TAB] Karite
Borassus aethiopium [TAB] Palmyra
Khaya senegalensis [TAB] Khaya
Bombax buonopozonse [TAB] Kapok
Pterocarpus erinaceus [TAB] Vene
Acacia albida [TAB] Gao
Tamarindus indica [TAB] Tamarind Tree
Parkia biglobesa [TAB] Nere
Hyphaene thebaica [TAB] Pal-tree
Andasonia digitata [TAB] Baobab-tree
Balanites aegyptieca [TAB] Balantines
Purpursca birrea
Acacia scorpioides-gonakie
Parinari macrophyla 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

