
 Convention On Future Multilateral Cooperation In The Northwest Atlantic Fisheries   
     Filename: 1978-NorthwestAtlanticFisheries.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.oceanlaw.net/texts/nafo.htm     
    ﻿Convention On Future Multilateral Cooperation In The Northwest Atlantic Fisheries
Source: http://www.oceanlaw.net/texts/nafo.htm
The CONTRACTING PARTIES,
NOTING the coastal States of the Northwest Atlantic have, in accordance with relevant principles of international law, extended their jurisdiction over the living resources of their adjacent waters to limits of up to two hundred nautical miles from the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea is measured, and exercise within these areas sovereign rights for the purpose of exploring and exploiting, conserving and managing these resources;
TAKING into account the work of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea in the field of fisheries;
DESIRING to promote the conservation and optimum utilization of the fishery resources of the Northwest Atlantic area within a framework appropriate to the regime of extended coastal State jurisdiction over fisheries, and accordingly to encourage international cooperation and consultation with respect to these resources;
HAVE AGREED as follows:
Article I
1. The area to which this Convention applies, hereinafter referred to as "the Convention Area", shall be the waters of the Northwest Atlantic Ocean north of 35°00' north latitude and west of a line extending due north from 35°00' north latitude and 42°00' west longitude to 59°00' north latitude, thence due west to 44°00' west longitude, and thence due north to the coast of Greenland and the waters of the Gulf of St. Lawrence, Davis Strait and Baffin Bay south of 78°10' north latitude.
2. The area referred to in this Convention as "the Regulatory Area" is that part of the Convention area which lies beyond the areas in which coastal states exercise fisheries jurisdiction.
3. For the purposes of the Convention, "coastal State" shall hereinafter mean a Contracting Party exercising fisheries jurisdiction in waters forming part of the Convention Area.
4. This Convention applies to all fishery resources of the Convention Area, with the following exceptions: salmon, tunas and marlins, cetacean stocks managed by the International Whaling Commission or any successor organization, and sedentary species of the Continental Shelf, i.e., organisms which, at the harvestable stage, either are immobile on or under the seabed or are unable to move except in constant physical contact with the seabed or the subsoil.
5. Nothing in this Convention shall be deemed to affect or prejudice the positions or claims of any Contracting Party in regard to internal waters, the territorial sea, or the limits or extent of the jurisdiction of any Party over fisheries; or to affect or prejudice the views or positions of any Contracting Party with respect to the law of the sea.
Article II
1. The Contracting Parties agree to establish and maintain an international organization whose object shall be to contribute through consultation and cooperation to the optimum utilization, rational management and conservation of the fishery resources of the Convention Area. This organization shall be known as the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization, hereinafter referred to as "the Organization", and shall carry out the functions set forth in this Convention.
2. The Organization shall consist of: 
a) a General Council;
b) a Scientific Council;
c) a Fisheries Commission;
d) a Secretariat.
3. The Organization shall have legal personality and shall enjoy in its relations with other international organizations and in the territories of the Contracting Parties such legal capacity as may be necessary to perform its functions and achieve its ends. The immunities and privileges which the Organization and its officers shall enjoy in the territory of a Contracting Party shall be subject to agreement between the Organization and the Contracting Party concerned.
4. The headquarters of the Organization shall be at Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, Canada, or as such other place as may be decided by the General Council.
Article III
The functions of the General Council shall be:
(a) to supervise and coordinate the organizational, administrative, financial and other internal affairs of the Organization, including the relations among its constituent bodies;
(b) to coordinate the external relations of the Organization;
(c) to review and determine the membership of the Fisheries Commission pursuant to Article XIII; and
(d) to exercise such other authority as is conferred upon it by this Convention.
Article IV
1. Each Contracting Party shall be a member of the General Council and shall appoint to the Council not more than three representatives who may be accompanied at any of its meetings by alternates, experts and advisers.
2. The General Council shall elect a Chairman and a Vice-Chairman, each of whom shall serve for a term of two years and shall be eligible for re-election but shall not serve for more than four years in succession. The Chairman shall be a representative of a Contracting Party that is a member of the Fisheries Commission and the Chairman and Vice-Chairman shall be representatives of different Contracting Parties.
3. The Chairman shall be the President of the Organization and shall be its principal representative.
4. The Chairman of the General Council shall convene a regular annual meeting of the Organization at a place decided upon by the General Council and which shall normally be in North America.
5. Any meeting of the General Council, other than the annual meeting, may be called by the Chairman at such time and place as the Chairman may determine, upon the request of a Contracting Party with the concurrence of another Contracting Party.
6. The General Council may establish such Committees and Subcommittees as it considers desirable for the exercise of its duties and functions.
Article V
1. Each Contracting Party shall have one vote in proceedings of the General Council.
2. Except where otherwise provided, decisions of the General Council shall be taken by a majority of the votes of all Contracting Parties present and casting affirmative or negative votes, provided that no vote shall be taken unless there is a quorum of at least two-thirds of the Contracting Parties.
3. The General Council shall adopt, and amend as occasion may require, rules for the conduct of its meetings and for the exercise of its functions.
4. The General Council shall submit to the Contracting Parties an annual report of the activities of the Organization.
Article VI
1. The functions of the Scientific Council shall be:
(a) to provide a forum for consultation and cooperation among the Contracting Parties with respect to the study, appraisal and exchange of scientific information and views relating to the fisheries of the Convention Area, including environmental and ecological factors affecting these fisheries, and to encourage and promote cooperation among the Contracting Parties in scientific research designed to fill gaps in knowledge pertaining to these matters;
(b) to compile and maintain statistics and records and to publish or disseminate reports, information and materials pertaining to the fisheries of the Convention Area, including environmental and ecological factors affecting these fisheries;
(c) to provide scientific advice to coastal States, where requested to do so pursuant to Article VII; and
(d) to provide scientific advice to the Fisheries Commission, pursuant to Article VIII or on its own initiative as required for the purposes of the Commission.
2. The functions of the Scientific Council may, where appropriate, be carried out in cooperation with other public or private organizations having related objectives.
3. The Contracting Parties shall furnish to the Scientific Council any available statistical and scientific information requested by the Council for the purpose of this Article.
Article VII
1. The Scientific Council shall, at the request of a coastal State, consider and report on any question pertaining to the scientific basis for the management and conservation of fishery resources in waters under the fisheries jurisdiction of that coastal State within the Convention Area.
2. The coastal State shall, in consultation with the Scientific Council, specify terms of reference for the consideration of any question referred to the Council pursuant to paragraph 1. These terms of reference shall include, along with any other matters deemed appropriate, such of the following as are applicable:
(a) a statement of the question referred, including a description of the fisheries and area to be considered;
(b) where scientific estimates or predictions are sought, a description of any relevant factors or assumptions to be taken into account; and
(c) where applicable, a description of any objectives the coastal State is seeking to attain and an indication of whether specific advice or a range of options should be provided.
Article VIII
The Scientific Council shall consider and report on any question referred to it by the Fisheries Commission pertaining to the scientific basis for the management and conservation of fishery resources within the Regulatory Area and shall take into account the terms of reference specified by the Fisheries Commission in respect of that question.
Article IX
1. Each Contracting Party shall be a member of the Scientific Council and shall appoint to the Council its own representatives who may be accompanied at any of its meetings by alternates, experts and advisers.
2. The Scientific Council shall elect a Chairman and a Vice-Chairman, each of whom shall serve for a term of two years and shall be eligible for re-election but shall not serve for more than four years in succession. The Chairman and Vice-Chairman shall be representatives of different Contracting Parties.
3. Any meeting of the Scientific Council, other than the annual meeting convened pursuant to Article IV, may be called by the Chairman at such time and place as the Chairman may determine, upon the request of a coastal State or upon the request of a Contracting Party with the concurrence of another Contracting Party.
4. The Scientific Council may establish such Committees and Subcommittees as it considers desirable for the exercise of its duties and functions.
Article X
1. Scientific advice to be provided by the Scientific Council pursuant to this Convention shall be determined by consensus. Where consensus cannot be achieved, the Council shall set out in its report all views advanced on the matter under consideration.
2. Decisions of the Scientific Council with respect to the election of officers, the adoption and the amendment of rules and other matters pertaining to the organization of its work shall be taken by a majority of votes of all Contracting Parties present and casting affirmative or negative votes, and for these purposes each Contracting Party shall have one vote. No vote shall be taken unless there is a quorum of at least two-thirds of the Contracting Parties.
3. The Scientific Council shall adopt, and amend as occasion may require, rules for the conduct of its meetings and for the exercise of its functions.
Article XI
1. The Fisheries Commission, hereinafter referred to as "the Commission", shall be responsible for the management and conservation of the fishery resources of the Regulatory Area in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
2. The Commission may adopt proposals for joint action by the Contracting Parties designed to achieve the optimum utilization of the fishery resources of the Regulatory Area. In considering such proposals, the Commission shall take into account any relevant information or advice provided to it by the Scientific Council.
3. In the exercise of its functions under paragraph 2, the Commission shall seek to ensure consistency between:
(a) any proposal that applies to a stock or group of stocks occurring both within the Regulatory Area and within an area under the fisheries jurisdiction of a coastal State, or any proposal that would have an effect through species interrelationships on a stock or group of stocks occurring in whole or in part within an area under the fisheries jurisdiction of a coastal State; and
(b) any measures or decisions taken by the coastal State for the management and conservation of that stock or group of stocks with respect to fishing activities conducted within the area under its fisheries jurisdiction. The appropriate coastal State and the Commission shall accordingly promote the coordination of such proposals, measures and decisions. Each coastal State shall keep the Commission informed of its measures and decisions for the purpose of this Article.
4. Proposals adopted by the Commission for the allocation of catches in the Regulatory Area shall take into account the interests of Commission members whose vessels have traditionally fished within that Area, and, in the allocation of catches from the Grand Banks and Flemish Cap, Commission members shall give special consideration to the Contracting Party whose coastal communities are primarily dependent on fishing for stocks related to these fishing banks and which has undertaken extensive efforts to ensure the conservation of such stocks through international action, in particular, by providing surveillance and inspection of international fisheries on these banks under an international scheme of joint enforcement.
5. The Commission may also adopt proposals for international measures of control and enforcement within the Regulatory Area for the purpose of ensuring within that Area the application of this Convention and the measures in force thereunder.
6. Each proposal adopted by the Commission shall be transmitted by the Executive Secretary to all Contracting Parties, specifying he date of transmittal for the purposes of paragraph 1 of Article XII.
7. Subject to the provisions of Article XII, each proposal adopted by the Commission under this Article shall become a measure binding on all Contracting Parties to enter into force on a date determined by the Commission.
8. The Commission may refer to the Scientific Council any question pertaining to the scientific basis for the management and conservation of fishery resources within the Regulatory Area and shall specify terms of reference for the consideration of that question.
9. The Commission may invite the attention of any or all Commission members to any matters which relate to the objectives and purposes of this Convention within the Regulatory Area.
Article XII
1. If any Commission member presents to the Executive Secretary an objection to a proposal within sixty days of the date of transmittal specified in the notification of the proposal by the Executive Secretary, the proposal shall not become a binding measure until the expiration of forty days following the date of transmittal specified in the notification of that object to the Contracting Parties. Thereupon any other Commission member may similarly object prior to the expiration of the additional forty-day period, or within thirty days after the date of transmittal specified in the notification to the Contracting Parties of any objection presented within that additional forty-day period, whichever shall be the later. The proposal shall then become a measure binding on all Contracting Parties, except those which have presented objections, at the end of the extended period or periods for objecting. If, however, at the end of such extended period or periods, objections have been presented and maintained by a majority of Commission members, the proposal shall not become a binding measure, unless any or all of the Commission members nevertheless agree as among themselves to be bound by it on an agreed date.
2. Any Commission member which has objected to a proposal may at any time withdraw that objection and the proposal immediately shall become a measure binding on such a member, subject to the objection procedure provided for in this Article.
3. At any time after the expiration of one year from the date on which a measure enters into force, any Commission member may give to the Executive Secretary notice of its intention not to be bound by the measure, and, if that notice is not withdrawn, the measure shall cease to be binding on that member at the end of one year from the date of receipt of the notice by the Executive Secretary. At any time after a measure has ceased to be binding on a Commission member under this paragraph, the measure shall cease to be binding on any other Commission member upon the date a notice of its intention not to be bound is received by the Executive Secretary.
4. The Executive Secretary shall immediately notify each Contracting Party of:
(a) the receipt of each objection and withdrawal of objection under paragraphs 1 and 2;
(b) the date on which any proposal becomes a binding measure under the provisions of paragraph 1; and
(c) the receipt of each notice under paragraph 3.
Article XIII
1. The membership of the Commission shall be reviewed and determined by the General Council at its annual meeting and shall consist of:
(a) each Contracting Party which participates in the fisheries of the Regulatory Area; and
(b) any Contracting Party which has provided evidence satisfactory to the General Council that it expects to participate in the fisheries of the Regulatory Area during the year of that annual meeting or during the following calendar year.
2. Each Commission member shall appoint to the Commission not more than three representatives who may be accompanied at any of its meetings by alternates, experts and advisers.
3. Any Contracting Party that is not a Commission member may attend meetings of the Commission as an observer.
4. The Commission shall elect a Chairman and a Vice-Chairman, each of whom shall serve for a term of two years and shall be eligible for re-election but shall not serve for more than four years in succession.
The Chairman and Vice-Chairman shall be representatives of different Commission members.
5. Any meeting of the Commission, other than the annual meeting convened pursuant to Article IV, may be called by the Chairman at such time and place as the Chairman may determine, upon the request of any Commission member.
6. The Commission may establish such Committees and Subcommittees as it considers desirable for the exercise of its duties and functions.
Article XIV
1. Each Commission member shall have one vote in proceedings of the Commission.
2. Decisions of the Commission shall be taken by a majority of the votes of all Commission members present and casting affirmative or negative votes, provided that no vote shall be taken unless there is a quorum of at least two-thirds of the Commission members.
3. The Commission shall adopt, and amend as occasion may require, rules for the conduct of its meetings and for the exercise of its functions.
Article XV
1. The Secretariat shall provide services to the Organization in the exercise of its duties and functions.
2. The chief administrative officer of the Secretariat shall be the Executive Secretary, who shall be appointed by the General Council according to such procedures and on such terms as it may determine.
3. The staff of the Secretariat shall be appointed by the Executive Secretary in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be determined by the General Council.
4. The Executive Secretary shall, subject to the general supervision of the General Council, have full power and authority over staff of the Secretariat and shall perform such other functions as the General Council shall prescribe.
Article XVI
1. Each Contracting Party shall pay the expenses of its own delegation to all meetings held pursuant to this Convention.
2. The General Council shall adopt an annual budget for the Organization.
3. The General Council shall establish the contributions due from each Contracting Party under the annual budget on the following basis:
(a) 10% of the budget shall be divided among the coastal States in proportion to their nominal catches in the Convention Area in the year ending two years before the beginning of the budget year;
(b) 30% of the budget shall be divided equally among all the Contracting Parties; and
(c) 60% of the budget shall be divided among all Contracting Parties in proportion to their nominal catches in the Convention Area in the year ending two years before the beginning of the budget year.
The nominal catches referred to above shall be the reported catches of the species listed in Annex I, which forms an integral part of this Convention.
4. The Executive Secretary shall notify each Contracting Party of the contribution due from that Party as calculated under paragraph 3, and as soon as possible thereafter each Contracting Party shall pay to the Organization its contribution.
5. Contributions shall be payable in the currency of the country in which the headquarters of the Organization is located, except if otherwise authorized by the General Council.
6. Subject to paragraph 11, the General Council shall, at its first meeting, approve a budget for the balance of the first financial year in which the Organization functions and the Executive Secretary shall transmit to the Contracting Parties copies of that budget together with notices of their respective contributions.
7. For subsequent financial years, drafts of the annual budget shall be submitted by the Executive Secretary to each Contracting Party together with a schedule of contributions, not less than sixty days before the annual meeting of the Organization at which the budgets are to be considered.
8. A Contracting Party acceding to this Convention during the course of a financial year shall contribute in respect of that year a part of the contribution calculated in accordance with the provisions of this Article that is proportional to the number of complete months remaining in the year.
9. A Contracting Party which has not paid its contributions for two consecutive years shall not enjoy any right of casting votes and presenting objections under this Convention until it has fulfilled its obligations, unless the General Council decides otherwise.
10. The financial affairs of the Organization shall be audited annually by external auditors to be selected by the General Council.
11. If the Convention enters into force on 1 January 1979, the provisions of Annex II, which forms an integral part of this Convention, shall apply in place of the provisions of paragraph 6.
Article XVII
The Contracting Parties agree to take such action, including the imposition of adequate sanctions for violations, as may be necessary to make effective the provisions of the Convention and to implement any measures which become binding under paragraph 7 of Article XI and any measures which are in force under Article XXIII. Each Contracting Party shall transmit to the Commission an annual statement of the actions taken by it for these purposes.
Article XVIII
The Contracting Parties agree to maintain in force and to implement within the Regulatory Area a scheme of joint international enforcement as applicable pursuant to Article XXIII or as modified by measures referred to in paragraph 5 of Article XI. This scheme shall include provision for reciprocal rights of boarding and inspection by the Contracting Parties and for flag State prosecution and sanctions on the basis of evidence resulting from such boardings and inspections. A report of such prosecutions and sanctions imposed shall be included in the annual statement referred to in Article XVII.
Article XIX
The Contracting Parties agree to invite the attention of any State not a Party to this Convention to any matter relating to the fishing activities in the Regulatory Area of the nationals or vessels of that State which appear to affect adversely the attainment of the objectives of this Convention. The Contracting Parties further agree to confer when appropriate upon the steps to be taken towards obviating such adverse effects.
Article XX
1. The Convention Area shall be divided into scientific and statistical sub-areas, divisions and subdivisions, the boundaries of which shall be those defined in Annex III to this Convention.
2. On the request of the Scientific Council, the General Council may by a two-thirds majority vote of all Contracting Parties, if deemed necessary for scientific or statistical purposes, modify the boundaries of the scientific and statistical sub-areas, divisions and subdivisions set out in Annex 111, provided that each coastal State exercising fisheries jurisdiction in any part of the area affected concurs in such action.
3. On the request of the Fisheries Commission and after having consulted the Scientific Council, the General Council may by a two-thirds majority vote of all Contracting Parties, if deemed necessary for management purposes, divide the Regulatory Area into appropriate regulatory divisions and subdivisions. These may subsequently be modified in accordance with the same procedure. The boundaries of any such divisions and subdivisions shall be defined in Annex III.
4. Annex III to this Convention, either in its present terms or as modified from time to time pursuant to this Article, forms an integral part of this Convention.
Article XXI
1. Any Contracting Party may propose amendments to this Convention to be considered and acted upon by the General Council at an annual or a special meeting. Any such proposed amendment shall be sent to the Executive Secretary at least ninety days prior to the meeting at which it is proposed to be acted upon and the Executive Secretary shall immediately transmit the proposal to all Contracting Parties.
2. The adoption of a proposed amendment to the Convention by the General Council shall require a three-fourths majority of the votes of all Contracting Parties. The text of any proposed amendments so adopted shall be transmitted by the Depositary to all Contracting Parties.
3. An amendment shall take effect for all Contracting Parties one hundred and twenty days following the date of transmittal specified in the notification by the Depositary of receipt of written notification of approval by three-fourths of all Contracting Parties unless any other Contracting Party notifies the Depositary that it objects to the amendment within ninety days of the date of transmittal specified in the notification by the Depositary of such receipt, in which case the amendment shall not take effect for any Contracting Party. Any Contracting Party which has objected to an amendment may at any time withdraw that objection. If all objections to an amendment are withdrawn, the amendment shall take effect for all Contracting Parties one hundred and twenty days following the date of transmittal specified in the notification by the Depositary of receipt of the last withdrawal.
4. Any Party which becomes a Contracting Party to the Convention after an amendment has been adopted in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be deemed to have approved the said amendment.
5. The Depositary shall promptly notify all Contracting Parties of the receipt of notifications of approval of amendments, the receipt of notifications of objection or withdrawal of objections, and the entry into force of amendments.
Article XXII
1. This Convention shall be open for signature at Ottawa until 31 December 1978, by the Parties represented at the Diplomatic Conference on the Future of Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries, held at Ottawa from 11 to 21 October 1977. It shall thereafter be open for accession.
2. This Convention shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by the signatories and the instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the Government of Canada referred to in this Convention as "the Depositary".
3. This Convention shall enter into force upon the first day of January following the deposit of instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval by not less than six Signatories, at least one of which exercises fisheries jurisdiction in waters forming part of the Convention Area.
4. Any party which has not signed this Convention may accede thereto by a notification in writing to the Depositary. Accessions received by the Depositary prior to the date of entry into force of this Convention shall become effective on the date this Convention enters into force. Accessions received by the Depositary after the date of entry into force of this Convention shall become effective on the date of receipt by the Depositary.
5. The Depositary shall inform all Signatories and all Contracting Parties of all ratifications, acceptances or approvals deposited and accessions received.
6. The Depositary shall convene the initial meeting of the Organization to be held not more than six months after the coming into force of the Convention, and shall communicate the provisional agenda to each Contracting Party not less than one month before the date of the meeting.
Article XXIII
Upon the entry into force of this Convention, each proposal that has been transmitted or is effective at that time under Article VIII of the International Convention for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries, 1949, ("the ICNAF Convention") shall, subject to the provisions of the ICNAF Convention, become a measure binding on each Contracting Party with respect to the Regulatory Area immediately, if the proposal has become effective under the ICNAF Convention, or at such time as it becomes effective thereunder. Subject to paragraph 3 of Article XII of this Convention, each such measure shall remain binding on each Contracting Party, until such time as it expire or is replaced by a measure which has become binding pursuant to Article XI of this Convention; provided that no such replacement shall take effect before this Convention has been in force for one year.
Article XXIV
1. Any Contracting Party may withdraw from the Convention on 31 December of any year by giving notice on or before the preceding 30 June to the Depositary, which shall communicate copies of such notice to other Contracting Parties.
2. Any other Contracting Party may thereupon withdraw from the Convention on the same 31 December by giving notice to the Depositary within one month of the receipt of a copy of a notice of withdrawal given pursuant to paragraph 1.
Article XXV
1. The original of the present Convention shall be deposited with the Government of Canada, which shall communicate certified copies thereof to all the Signatories and to all the Contracting Parties.
2. The Depositary shall register the present Convention with the Secretariat of the United Nations.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, have signed this Convention.
Done at Ottawa, this 24th day of October, 1978, in a single original, in the English and French languages, each text being equally authentic. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

