
 Amendment to the List Of Substances In Annexes I And II To The Convention On The Prevention Of Marine Pollution By Dumping Of Wastes And Other Matter (concerning the prohibition of dumping at sea of crude oil and oily substances and mixtures)   
     Filename: 1980-Amendment-1972-MarinePollutionDumpingWastesOtherMatter.EN.txt 
 Source: https://iea.uoregon.edu/MarineMammals/engine/Documents/0-1830-1831.htm     
    ﻿Amendment to the Annex to the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter
Source: https://iea.uoregon.edu/MarineMammals/engine/Documents/0-1830-1831.htm
THE FIFTH CONSULTATIVE MEETING,
RECALLING Article I of the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter, which provides that Contracting Parties shall individually and collectively promote the effective control of all sources of pollution of the marine environment,
NOTING that in accordance with Article XV of the Convention amendments to the Annexes of the Convention shall be based on scientific or technical considerations,
HAVING CONSIDERED the proposed amendments to the Annexes I and 11 of the Convention and the scientific background materials thereto brought forward by the Ad Hoc Scientific Working Group on Dumping,
RECALLING the decision of the Fourth Consultative Meeting that the amendments to the Annexes 1 and 11 to the Convention should be implemented by Contracting Parties on a voluntary basis until their formal adoption,
ADOPTS the following amendments to the Annexes to the Convention in accordance with Article XV(2) thereof:
(a) the amendment of paragraph 5 to Annex I;
(b) the addition of a paragraph F to Annex II,
the texts of which are set out in Attachment to this Resolution;
ENTRUSTS the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation with the task of ensuring, in collaboration with the Governments of France, Spain, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United Kingdom, that the texts of the above amendments are drawn up by I December 1980 in all official languages of the Convention with the linguistic consistency in each text, which would then become the authentic text of the Annexes to the Convention in the English, French, Russian and Spanish languages,
RESOLVES that for the purposes of Article XIV(4)(a) and XV(2) of the Convention, I December 1980 shall be treated as the date of the adoption of the amendments,
REQUESTS the Secretary-General of the Organisation to inform Contracting Parties of the above-mentioned amendments.
Attachment
AMENDMENTS TO ANNEXES TO THE CONVENTION ON THE PREVENTION OF MARINE POLLUTION BY DUMPING OF WASTES AND OTHER MATTER
Paragraph 5 of Annex I shall be amended as follows:
"5 Crude oil and its wastes, refined petroleum products, petroleum distillate residues, and any mixtures containing any of these, taken on board for the purpose of dumping."
The following paragraph shall be added to Annex II:
"F Substances which, though of a non-toxic nature, may become harmful due to the quantities in which they are dumped, or which are liable to seriously reduce amenities." 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

