
 Protocol Amending The Interim Convention On Conservation Of North Pacific Fur Seals   
     Filename: 1980-Protocol-1957-FurSeals.EN.txt 
 Source: http://sedac.ciesin.org/entri/texts/acrc/1980FS.txt.html     
    ﻿Protocol Amending the Interim Convention on Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals
Source: http://sedac.ciesin.org/entri/texts/acrc/1980FS.txt.html, downloaded 20040415
The Governments of Canada, Japan, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America, Parties to the Interim Convention on Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals, signed at Washington on February 9, 1957, as amended, hereinafter referred to as the Convention,
Desiring to amend the Convention,
Have agreed as follows:
Article I
The Convention shall be applied as amended by this Protocol as from the date of its entry into force.
Article II
In Article V, paragraph 2(e) of the Convention, "twenty-first" shall be replaced by "twenty-fifth".
Article III
In Article VI, paragraph 1 of the Convention, except within the territorial waters of another State" shall be replaced by "except within the areas in which another State exercises fisheries jurisdiction.
Article IV
In Article XI of the Convention, "twenty-second" shall be replaced by "twenty-sixth".
Article V
In Article XIII, paragraph 4 of the Convention, "twenty-two" shall be replaced by "twenty-six".
Article VI
1. This Protocol shall be subject to ratification or acceptance. Instruments of ratification or acceptance shall be deposited with the Government of the United States of America as soon as possible.
2. A signatory Government which intends to ratify or accept this Protocol, may notify the Government of the United States of America that it will apply this Protocol provisionally in accordance with its laws and regulations pending fulfilment of domestic constitutional requirements for ratification or acceptance.
3. The Government of the United States of America shall notify the other signatory Governments of ratifications or acceptances deposited and of notifications of provisional application made.
4. This Protocol shall enter into force provisionally on the date on which instruments of ratification or acceptance have been deposited or the notifications of provisional application as referred to in paragraph 2 above have been made by all the signatory Governments. It shall continue in force provisionally until the date on which it enters into force definitively in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5.
5. This Protocol shall enter into force definitively on the date on which instruments of ratification or acceptance have been deposited by all the signatory Governments.
6. The original of this Protocol shall be deposited with the Government of the United States of America, which shall communicate certified copies thereof to each of the Governments signatory to this Protocol.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized by their respective Governments, have signed this protocol.
Done at Washington, this fourteenth day of October, nineteen hundred and eighty, in the English, French, Japanese, and Russian languages, each text equally authentic. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

