
 Convention Creating The Niger Basin Authority   
     Filename: 1980-NigerBasinAuthority.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www4.worldbank.org/afr/ssatp/Resources/HTML/legal_review/Annexes/Annexes%…     
    ﻿CONVENTION CREATING THE NIGER BASIN AUTHORITY
Source: http://www4.worldbank.org/afr/ssatp/Resources/HTML/legal_review/Annexes/...
The President of the People's Republic of Benin;
The President of the United Republic of Cameroon;
The President of the Republic of Ivory Coast;
The President of the Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea
The President of the Republic of Upper Volta;
The President of the Republic of Mali;
The Chairman of the Supreme Military Council, Head of State of the Republic of Niger;
The President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria;
The President of the Republic of Chad.
Whereas the Act of Niamey relating to the Navigation and the Economic Co-operation between the States of the Niger Basin was signed on the 26th October 1963 at Niamey,
Whereas the Summit of Heads of State and Government met on the 26th January 1979 at Lagos and set up the objectives of dynamising the Organization,
Considering the guiding Speech made by the Current Chairman of the Summit of Heads of State and Government to the 6th Ministerial Session of the River Niger Commission on the 11th March 1980 in Conakry,
Bearing in mind the need to promote the social and economic progress of their countries in order to improve the standard of living of their Peoples,
Convinced that the social and economic progress of their countries calls for an effective economic co-operation based on determined and concerted policy to put together their individual means for the attainment of a collective welfare,
Convinced of the necessity to promote the economic development of their countries through an integrated development of the Niger River Basin,
Reaffirming their willingness for unity and solidarity in the organization for the overall development of the Niger Basin,
Decide to transform the River Niger Commission into a "Niger Basin Authority".
Chapter I CREATION AND COMPOSITION
Article 1
1.By this Convention, the High Contracting Parties decide to change the River Niger Commission to "Niger Basin Authority" hereinafter referred to as "the Authority".
2.The Authority is established in lieu of the River Niger Commission established by the Agreement Relating to the River Niger Commission and to Navigation and Transports on the River Niger, made in Niamey on 25th November 1964, and revised in Niamey on 2nd February 1968 and on 15th June 1973 and in Lagos on 26th January 1979.
3.The Authority inherits all the assets and assumes all the obligations of the River Niger Commission.
4.The Headquarters of the Authority shall be in Niamey, Republic of Niger.
Article 2 COMPOSITION OF THE AUTHORITY
The Riparian States of the Niger River, its tributaries and sub-tributaries, who are signatories of this Convention are members of the Authority and hereafter referred to as "Member States".
Chapter II AIM AND OBJECTIVES OF THE AUTHORITY
Article 3 AIM
1.The aim of the Authority is to promote the co-operation among member States and to ensure an integrated development of the Niger Basin in all fields, by developing its resources particularly in the fields of energy, water resources, agriculture, animal husbandry, fishing and fisheries, forestry and forestry exploitation, transport, communications and industry.
2.In pursuance of the purpose mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the action of the Authority shall be directed to the harmonization of national development policies in the Basin through the implementation of integrated development projects and programmes.
Article 4 OBJECTIVES
1.The Authority shall be responsible for:
(a) The harmonization and the co-ordination of national development policies, in order to ensure an equitable policy as regards sharing of the water resources among member States.
(b) The formulation, in agreement with the member States, of the general policy of the development of the Basin which shall be consistent with the international status of the River Basin.
(c) The elaboration and the execution of an integrated development plan of the Basin.
(d) The initiating and monitoring of an orderly and rational regional policy for the utilization of the surface and underground waters in the Basin.
(e) The designing and conduct of studies, research and surveys.
(f) The formulation of plans, the construction, exploitation and maintenance of structure and projects realized within the general objectives of the integrated development of the Basin.
2.For the purpose set out in the above paragraph (1) the Authority shall notably undertake, in harmony with the development plans of States relating to Niger Basin and in accordance with the general objectives of integrated development of the Basin, the following activities:
(a) Statistics and Planning:
(i)Collection, centralization, standardization, exploitation, dissemination, exchange of technical and related data;
(ii) Co-ordination of plans, projects and research carried out in the member States;
(iii) Consideration of projects presented by the member States with a view to making recommendations on co-ordinated programmes of research and implementation;
(iv) Monitoring of research and works undertaken by member States and subsequent exploitation of reports which such States should submit periodically;
(v)Drawing up a master plan and an integrated development programme of the Basin with an identification, at the various stages of the programme, of priorities among alternative uses, projects and sectors.
(b) Infrastructure:
(i)Designing, study and construction of hydraulic multi- purpose structures of all types and sizes;
(ii) Designing, study and construction of works, plants and projects in the fields of transports and communications;
(iii) Improvement and maintenance of navigable water-ways;
(iv) Development of river transport and promotion of an integrated multi-model transport system (sea-river-rail- road) as a factor of integration and for opening up the land-locked Sahelian member States.
(c) Water Control and Utilization:
(i)Regulation of the flow and drainage of the main waterway;
(ii) Flood control;
(iii) Construction and maintenance of dikes;
(iv) Prevention and control of drought and desertification;
(v)Prevention of soil erosion and sedimentation;
(vi) Setting up of structures and works for land development including salt water and drainage control.
(d) Environment Control and Preservation:
(i)Protection of the environment comprising the establishment of norms and measures applicable to the States in the alternative uses of waters in the Basin;
(ii) Prevention and reduction of water pollution;
(iii) Preservation of human health and genetic resources (fauna and flora).
(e) Navigation Control and Regulation:
The control and the rules of all forms of navigation on the River, its tributaries and sub-tributaries are governed by the principles laid down in the Act of Niamey relating to the Navigation and the Economic Co-operation among the States of the Niger Basin signed at Niamey in 1963.
(f) Land and Agro-Pastoral Development:
(i)Development of food crops;
(ii) Development of agro-pastoral, fishery and forestry resources;
(iii) Implementation of programmes allowing the rational use of waters for domestic, industrial agricultural and pastoral purposes.
(g) Financing the Projects and Works:
Applying for financial and technical assistance on a bilateral, multilateral or international basis for carrying out studies and works for the development of the Niger River Basin and to that effect conclude agreements, provided that agreements involving financial commitments for the member States become effective only after approval by the Council of Ministers.
3.The terms, conditions and statutory provisions to be defined with the view to achieving the objectives as stated in paragraph (2) above, shall be, if necessary and in each case, provided for in riders which shall be annexed to the Convention of which they shall form an integral part.
4.The member States pledge to keep the Executive Secretariat informed of all projects and works they might intend to carry out in the Basin.
Moreover, they pledge not to undertake any work on the portion of the River, its tributaries and sub-tributaries under their territorial jurisdiction which pollute the waters or modify the biological features of the fauna and the flora.
Chapter III THE INSTITUTIONS OF THE AUTHORITY
Article 5 INSTITUTIONS
1.The institutions of the Authority shall be as follows:
(a) The Summit of Heads of State and Government;
(b) The Council of Ministers;
(c) The Technical Committee of Experts;
(d) The Executive Secretariat and its specialised Organs.
Article 6 THE SUMMIT OF HEADS OF STATE AND GOVERNMENT-COMPOSITION AND FUNCTIONS
1.The Summit of Heads of State and Government hereinafter referred to as "the Summit" is the supreme organ of orientation and decision.
2.The Summit is made up of Heads of State and Government or their duly accredited Representatives.
3.The Summit shall define the general orientation of the development policy of the Authority and ensure the control of its executive functions with a view to achieving its objectives.
4.It shall meet once every two years in ordinary Session in the member State holding the Chairmanship. The quorum shall be the simple majority.
5.The Summit may meet in extraordinary Session at the request of the Current Chairman or a member State on the unanimous agreement of other member States.
6.The decisions and the directives of the Summit shall commit all the Institutions of the Authority.
7.The Summit shall definitely pronounce judgment on any matter which has not been resolved at the level of Council of Ministers.
8.Except otherwise decided, the Summit shall elect a Chairman for two years by rotation among member States according to the French alphabetical order by country. Between two sessions he shall represent the Summit and take decisions within his powers in the interest and for a harmonious operation of the Organization.
Article 7 COUNCIL OF MINISTERS-COMPOSITION AND FUNCTIONS
1.The Council of Ministers of the Authority hereinafter referred to as "the Council" is the organ of control of the Authority. It is made up of Ministers or their accredited representatives. Each member State shall have one vote. Each Minister may be assisted by experts.
2.The Council is responsible for the monitoring of the activities of the Executive Secretariat and shall report them to the Summit. It shall prepare the meetings of the Summit and examine all the problems, deal with matters presented to it and submit the recommendations of these meetings to the Summit.
3.The Council shall meet once a year in ordinary Session. The quorum shall be reached on simple majority. The recommendations and resolutions shall be adopted by consensus.
4.The Current Chairman of the Council shall convene an extraordinary meeting of the Council at the request of a member State.
5.The Council shall meet in the country assuming the chairmanship, or the Host Country, or in any other place designated by the Chairman of the Summit. The Chairman is elected for two years. Between Sessions, he shall represent the Council. He takes decisions according to the directives of the Summit and within the limit of the powers conferred upon him. The Chairmanship is assumed by rotation according to French alphabetical order of the names of the countries.
Article 8 THE TECHNICAL COMMITTEE OF EXPERTS - CREATION, COMPOSITION AND FUNCTIONS
1.The Technical Committee of Experts shall comprise representatives from each member State with the mandate to:
(a) Prepare all meetings of the Council of Ministers;
(b) Submit reports and recommendations to the Council of Ministers.
2.The Technical Committee of Experts may meet at the Executive Secretary's request according to a schedule approved by the Council of Ministers.
3.Any other meeting of the Technical Committee of Experts shall be approved by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers.
Article 9 THE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT
1.The Executive Secretariat is the executive organ of the Authority.
2.The Executive Secretariat is run by an Executive Secretary who is appointed, upon recommendation by the Council of Ministers, to the Summit of Heads of State and Government for a period of four (4) years, renewable only once. Each member State has the right to present a candidate for the post of Executive Secretary.
3.The Executive Secretary is the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority. He is assisted by a Deputy Executive Secretary appointed by the Council of Ministers for a term of four (4) years, renewable only once. The Deputy Executive Secretary is under the authority of the Executive Secretary.
4.The Executive Secretary and/or the Deputy Executive Secretary may be removed from office by the Summit on the recommendation of the Council of Ministers.
5.Subject to the overriding importance of securing for the Authority the services of persons possessing the highest qualifications and technical experience due regard shall be paid, on appointing officers to the offices of the Executive Secretariat, to the desirability of maintaining an equitable distribution of appointments to such posts among member States.
6.In the exercise of his duties, the Executive Secretary shall be responsible to the superior organs of the Authority. The Deputy Executive Secretary and the other officials of the Secretariat shall be responsible to the Executive Secretary.
7.The Executive Secretary shall be responsible for the administration of the Authority and all its organs. For this purpose, he shall specifically:
(a) undertake such works and studies with a view to achieving the objectives of the Authority, as may be assigned to him by the Council of Ministers and formulate such proposals as may assist in the harmonious development of the Authority;
(b) negotiate loans and receive gifts on behalf of the Authority with approval by the Council of Ministers.
Chapter IV FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
Article 10 THE BUDGET OF THE AUTHORITY
1.It is established for every year a balanced Budget of the Authority.
2.All the expenses of the Authority, including those relating to the specialized organs of the Executive Secretary, are approved, for each fiscal year, by the Council of Ministers and are imputable to the Budget according to conditions and modalities which are defined in the financial regulations of the Authority.
Article 11 CONTRIBUTIONS OF MEMBER STATES
1.The operating Budget of the Executive Secretary of the Authority shall be financed by contributions equally shared among the member States.
2.The member States pledge to pay regularly their annual contributions to the Budget of the Authority.
Article 12 CURRENCIES OF PAYMENT OF CONTRIBUTIONS
1.The contributions payable by each member State of the Authority under this Convention shall be paid in convertible currency.
2.The Unit of Account in which the Budget of the Authority is established is that of the host country.
3.Are considered as "convertible currencies" under this Article: currencies declared as such by the International Monetary Fund and other currencies which the Council shall consider as such.
4.The exchange rate of the currencies of the member States of the Authority meant for the payments of their contributions under this Convention, shall be the official rate declared to the International Monetary Fund at the date of payment. In case the currency of a member State depreciates, the normal rate of buying and selling of the member State's Central Bank shall be applied.
Article 13 FINANCIAL REGULATION
1.The Council of Ministers shall establish the Financial Regulation with a view to implementing the provisions of this Chapter.
Article 14 THE FINANCIAL CONTROLLER AND THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR
1.A Financial Controller shall be appointed by the Council of Ministers to whom he shall be answerable. He shall be directly responsible as far as the financial management of the Secretariat is concerned.
2.An External Auditor of the Authority is appointed on the recommendation of the host country to the Council of Ministers and may be removed from office, when need be, by the Council.
3.The rules governing the terms and conditions of service of the Financial Controller and the powers of the External Auditor are as laid down in the Financial Regulation.
Chapter V SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
Article 15 PROCEDURE FOR THE SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
Any dispute that may arise among the member States over the interpretation and/or implementation of this Convention shall be amicably settled through direct negotiation. In the event of failure to settle such disputes, the matter shall be referred to the Summit by a party to such disputes and the decision on the same shall be final.
Chapter VI OTHER PROVISIONS
Article 16 IMMUNITIES; PRIVILEGES AND ADVANTAGES
1.The Authority as an Inter-Governmental Institution shall enjoy legal personality.
2.The Authority shall have in the territory of each member State:
(a) The legal capacity required for the performance of its functions under this Convention;
(b) The power to acquire, enjoy and dispose of movable and immovable property;
(c) The right to institute legal proceedings.
3.In the exercise of its legal capacity under this Article the Authority shall be represented by the Executive Secretary.
4.The Executive Secretary and his Deputy shall be accorded diplomatic privileges and immunities by the member States. The other staff of the Commission shall be accorded such privileges and immunities as accorded to officials of the Organization of African Unity of equivalent status.
Article 17 ENTRY INTO FORCE
The present Convention which is a revision of the Agreement of Niamey and the Riders which shall be annexed and which shall form an integral part of the Convention upon their signature by member States shall enter into force upon ratification by two thirds of signatory States in accordance with the constitutional procedures applicable in each signatory State.
Article 18 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS
1.Any member State may submit proposals for the amendment or revision of this Convention.
2.Any such amendment or revision proposed shall be sent to the Current Chairman of the Council who shall communicate them to other member States not later than 60 days after the receipt of such proposals.
3.All amendments and revisions to this Convention shall enter into force in conformity with the provisions of Article 17.
Article 19 DENUNCIATION
1.Any member State may denounce this Convention after the expiration of ten years (10) as from the date of its entry into force.
2.The denunciation shall be made under the form of notification written to the depositary Government which will in turn acknowledge receipt and communicate it to the Governments of other member States.
3.The denunciation shall take effect one year after the date of its reception unless it has been previously withdrawn. It shall not affect any study programme, works or other commitments already agreed upon before the denunciation, unless there is a previous contrary agreement to this effect.
4.The member State concerned shall meet all obligations under this Convention and by virtue of its status as a member, before the date mentioned in paragraph (3) above.
Article 20 DEPOSITARY GOVERNMENT
The present Convention and all the instruments of ratification and accession shall be deposited with the Government of the Republic of Niger which shall forward certified true copies to all member States and notify them of the date of deposits of the instruments of ratification and accession and shall register this Convention with the Organization of African Unity and the United Nations Organization.
Chapter VII FINAL PROVISION
Article 21 NIAMEY AGREEMENT
This Convention revises the Niamey Agreement, signed in Niamey on the 25th of November 1964 revised in Niamey on the 2nd February 1968 and on the 15th June 1973, and in Lagos on the 26th January 1979.
In witness whereof, we, the Heads of State and Government of Niger Basin Authority, have signed this Convention.
Made at Faranah, this 21st Day of November 1980 in single original in the English and French languages, both texts being equally authentic. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

