
 Protocol Agreement On The Conservation Of Common Natural Resources   
     Filename: 1982-ProtocolConservationCommonNaturalResources.EN.txt 
 Source: International Environmental Law: Multilateral Treaties (B7 p. 982:10/11)     
    ﻿Protocol Agreement On The Conservation Of Common Natural Resources
Source: International Environmental Law: Multilateral Treaties (B7 p. 982:10/11)
The Government of Sudan
The Government of Uganda
The Executive Council of Zaire
Considering that the wild life and flora in their in¬numberable forms constitute an irreplaceable element in the world natural ecosystem which must be preserved for the benefit of mankind.
Conscious of the increasing values of the world fauna and flora with regard to their ecologic, genetic, scientific, social, economic, cultural, educational and recreational aspects.
Aware of the serious danger that threatens man and his social and national environment.
Recognizing that the three states have expressed the fear that poaching and illicit trade in plants and animals poses a danger which may be detrimental to their natural heritage.
Agreed that conservation and an efficient management of wild fauna and flora species demand a concerted action by the three states.
The Government of Sudan 
The Government of Uganda 
The Executive Council of Zaire, 
have agreed as follows:
Title I:
Fundamental Principles
Article I
Knowing the importance that the three states attach to the conservation of fauna and flora species in the protected areas, they will pay special attention to the common natural resources and will take individually or collectively any measures necessary for the conservation of these species and their habitat.
Article II
States sharing one area of protected species will prohibit the capture of animals belonging to that kind with the exception of the following:
(a) The capture is operated for scientific use.
(b) The capture is operated in order to improve or pro¬pagate the survival of the concerned species.
The exceptions have to be precise in their content and limited in space and time, and the foregoing exceptions should not be detrimental to the species concerned.
Title II:
Certificates and other Export Permits
on Wild Fauna and Flora
Article III
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 2 of the pre-sent agreement, certificates issued by the competent authority in one of the three contracting parties in confor¬mity with the arrangements of international trade conven¬tion on endangered wild fauna and flora species (Washington Convention) should be accepted by the other states.
Article IV
In the frontier areas or in the territory of another contract¬ing party, any possessor of game products who does not have valid export permits will be subjected to the laws of the country concerned. In this case the goods seized will be restored to the country of origin.
Title III:
General Provisions
Article V
For the purpose of implementing the present agreement the sub-commission on illicit trade and poaching is entrusted with the responsibility of implementing the following:
(a) To meet twice a year
(b) To study, analyse and discuss any problem resulting from poaching and illicit trade in the contracting par-ties.
(c) Raise any recommendation they deem necessary to the competent concerned authorities.
Article VI
The present agreement comes into effect on the date of ratification. Any member of the parties, may, at any time, terminate the agreement by notifying the other parties of its intention to terminate this agreement within six months time.
In witness whereof, the Representatives of the contracting parties duly designed for this purpose by their respective Governments have signed the present Agreement. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

