
 Protocol Amending The International Convention For The Conservation Of Atlantic Tunas   
     Filename: 1984-Protocol-1966-AtlanticTunas.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.fao.org/Legal/treaties/paris-e.htm     
    ﻿Protocol Amending the International Convention for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas
Source: http://www.fao.org/Legal/treaties/paris-e.htm
I. Articles XIV, XV and XVI of the International Convention for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas are modified as follows:
ARTICLE XIV
1. This Convention shall be open for signature by the Government of any State which is a Member of the United Nations or of any Specialized Agency of the United Nations. Any such government which does not sign this Convention may adhere to it at any time.
2. This Convention shall be subject to ratification or approval by signatory countries in accordance with their constitutions. Instruments of ratification, approval, or adherence shall be deposited with the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
3. This Convention shall enter into force upon the deposit of instruments of ratification, approval, or adherence by seven Governments and shall enter into force with respect to each Government which subsequently deposits an instrument of ratification, approval, or adherence on the date of such deposit.
4. This Convention shall be open for signature or adherence by any inter-governmental economic integration organization constituted by States that have transferred to it competence over the matters governed by this Convention, including the competence to enter into treaties in respect of those matters.
5. Upon the deposit of its instrument of formal confirmation or adherence, any organization referred to in paragraph 4 shall be a Contracting Party having the same rights and obligations in respect of the provisions of the Convention as the other Contracting Parties. Reference in the text of the Convention to the term "State" in Article IX, paragraph 3, and to the term "government" in the Preamble and in Article XIII, paragraph 1, shall be interpreted in this manner.
6. When an organization referred to in paragraph 4 becomes a Contracting Party to this Convention, the member states of that organization and those which adhere to it in the future shall cease to be parties to the Convention; they shall transmit a written notification to this effect to the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
ARTICLE XV
The Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations shall inform all Governments referred to in paragraph 1 of Article XIV and all the organizations referred to in paragraph 4 of the same Article of deposits of instruments of ratification, approval, formal confirmation or adherence, the entry into force of this Convention, proposals for amendments, notifications of acceptance of amendments, entry into force of amendments, and notifications of withdrawal.
ARTICLE XVI
The original of this Convention shall be deposited with the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations who shall send certified copies of it to the Governments referred to in paragraph 1 of Article XIV and to the organizations referred to in paragraph 4 of the same Article.
II. The original of this Protocol, the English, French and Spanish texts of which are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Director General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. It shall be open for signature in Rome until September 10, 1984. The Contracting Parties to the International Convention for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas that have not signed the Protocol by that date may nevertheless deposit their instruments of acceptance at any time. The Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations shall send a certified copy of this Protocol to each of the Contracting Parties to the International Convention for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas.
III. This Protocol shall enter into force upon deposit with the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations of instruments of approval, ratification or acceptance of all Contracting parties. In this regard, the provisions set out in the last sentence of paragraph 1 of Article XIII of the International Convention for the Conservation of Atlantic tunas shall apply mutatis mutandis. The date of entry into force shall be the thirtieth day following the deposit of the last instrument.
Done at Paris, July 10, 1984. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

