
 Protocol Amending The Interim Convention On Conservation Of North Pacific Fur Seals   
     Filename: 1984-Protocol-1957-FurSeals.EN.txt 
 Source: http://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/entri/texts/acrc/1984FS.txt.html     
    ﻿1984 Protocol Amending the Interim Convention on Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals
SRC: http://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/entri/texts/acrc/1984FS.txt.html
The Governments of Canada, Japan, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and the United States of America,
Parties to the Interim Convention on Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals, signed at Washington on February 9, 1957, as amended and applied, hereinafter referred to as the Convention,
Desiring to amend the Convention,
Have agreed as follows:
Article I
The Convention shall be applied as amended by this Protocol as from the date of its entry into force.
Article II
In Article V, paragraph 2(e) of the Convention, "at the end of the twenty-fifth year after entry into force of the Convention" is replaced by "by October 13,1986".
Article III
In Article XI of the Convention, "in the twenty-sixth year after entry into force of the Convention" is replaced by "within the one year period prior to October 14,1987".
Article IV
In Article XIII of the Convention, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following:
"4. The Convention shall continue in force until October 13,1987 and thereafter until the entry into force of a new or revised fur seal convention between the Parties, or until October 13, 1988, whichever may be the earlier; provided, however, that the Convention shall terminate one year from the day on which a Party gives written notice to the other Parties of an intention of terminating the Convention."
Article V
1. This Protocol shall be subject to ratification or acceptance. Instruments of ratification or acceptance shall be deposited with the Government of the United States of America as soon as possible.
2. A signatory Government which intends to ratify or accept this Protocol may notify the Government of the United States of America that it will apply this Protocol provisionally in accordance with its laws and regulations pending the fulfilment of domestic constitutional requirements for ratification or acceptance.
3. The Government of the United States of America shall notify the other signatory Governments of ratifications or acceptance deposited and of notifications of provisional application made.
4. This Protocol shall enter into force provisionally on the date on which instruments of ratification or acceptance have been deposited with or the notifications of provisional application as referred to in paragraph 2 above have been made to the Government of the United States of America by all the signatory Governments . It shall continue in force provisionally until the date on which it enters into force definitively in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5.
5. This Protocol shall enter into force definitively on the date on which instruments of ratification or acceptance have been deposited with the Government of the United States of America by all the signatory Governments.
6. The original of this Protocol shall be deposited with the Government of the United States of America, which shall communicate certified copies thereof to each of the Governments signatory to this Protocol.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized by their respective Governments, have signed this Protocol.
DONE at Washington this 12th day of October, 1984, in the English, French, Japanese, and Russian languages, each text being equally authentic.
STATEMENT BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF CANADA, JAPAN, THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS, AND THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ON THE SIGNING OF THE 1984 PROTOCOL AMENDING THE INTERIM CONVENTION ON CONSERVATION OF NORTH PACIFIC FUR SEALS
The Governments of Canada, Japan, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and the United States of America (hereinafter referred to as the "Governments"), Parties to the Interim Convention on Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals, as amended and applied (hereinafter referred to as the "Convention), noted that, through their efforts, the North Pacific Fur Seal Commission (hereinafter referred to as the "Commission) has made an important contribution during the past quarter century to the conservation and management of North Pacific fur seal resources, and to the maintenance of a healthy ecosystem that includes such resources.
Therefore, the Governments expressed their intention to ratify or accept the 1984 Protocol Amending the Interim Convention on Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals in order to enable the Commission to continue its effective role in achieving the objectives of the Convention.
At the same time, the Governments noted that concern had been expressed on the decline of the fur seal populations, current economic conditions, and other problems of fur seal conservation and utilization.
As a result of the concern expressed, the Governments have expressed their shared view:
(1) that, in accordance with Article II of the Convention, additional research should be conducted concerning current aspects of fur seal conservation including the problem of entanglement of fur seals in lost or discarded fishing nets, gear, and other debris;
(2) that, in accordance with Article X of the Convention, and in conformity with their national laws, the Governments will take appropriate measures to prohibit the disposal at sea in the Convention areas of synthetic materials, such as fishing nets, or parts thereof, fishing gear, ropes, packing bands, and other debris which might lead to the entanglement of fur seals, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter, of December 29, 1972;
(3) that, in accordance with Article X of the Convention, it may be necessary during the interim period of the Convention to take into account unforeseen circumstances as noted by the States of fur seal origin in considering measures to be taken for conservation and management of the fur seal populations; and
(4) that, taking into account Article XIII, paragraphs 4 and 5, as well as Article V, paragraph 2(e), within two years after the entry into force of the 1984 Protocol Amending the Interim Convention on Conservation of North Pacific Fur Seals and considering current factors, the Governments will review the operation of the Convention to determine what further agreements would be desirable in order to achieve the objectives of the Convention.
DONE at Washington this 12th day of October, 1984 in the English, French, Japanese, and Russian languages, each text being equally authentic. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

