
 Amendment 1 To The Constitutional Agreement Of The Latin American Organization For Fisheries Development   
     Filename: 1984-Amendment1-1982-Oldepesca.EN.txt 
 Source: http://iea.uoregon.edu/pages/MarineMammals/engine/Documents/2-0513-0516.html     
    ﻿AMENDMENT 1 TO THE LATIN-AMERICAN FISHING DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION (OLDEPESCA) AGREEMENT
Source: http://iea.uoregon.edu/pages/MarineMammals/engine/Documents/2-0513-0516....
The member states of the Latin-American Fishing Development Organization, duly represented in its 1st Ministerial Conference,
In view of Articles 11 (c), 14 and 35 of the OLDEPESCA Agreement and Articles 7 and 8 of the Declaration by the Ministers of Fishing of SELA's Action Committee on Seafood and Freshwater Products issued in its 4th Meeting, held in October 1983, and
Considering that it is of interest to the Latin-American and Caribbean countries to incorporate in the OLDEPESCA Agreement those provisions that improve it and contribute to the ratification of or adherence to that Agreement by all those countries;
That, in this regard, it is necessary to specify in the Agreement that the countries which have signed agreements on the preservation, conservation and exploitation of marine and freshwater resources will, in the programs which they sign within the framework of the agreement, honor the commitments assumed in those agreements; and
That it is also necessary to consider, in the Agreement, the principle of consensus on all those substantive aspects of regional cooperation that are in OLDEPESCA's sphere of competence,
Resolve to amend the OLDEPESCA Agreement as follows:
First. To include the following additional paragraph in Article 37 of the OLDEPESCA Agreement:
"The signatory member states that have already entered into agreements for the preservation, conservation and exploitation of marine and freshwater resources will honor the commitments made by virtue of the aforementioned agreements when participating in programs arising from the Incorporation Agreement"; and
Second. To modify Article 14 of the OLDEPESCA Agreement to read as follows:
The Conference shall express its will through Resolutions. Each State has the right to one vote. Resolutions shall be adopted by consensus of attending Member States in those cases stipulated in paragraphs (c), (i) and (m) of Article 11, and by two thirds majority of attending Member States in those cases stipulated in paragraphs (a), (f), (h) and (j) of said Article. In all other cases, Resolutions shall be adopted by a majority not less than half plus one of attending Member States."
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the members of the Ministerial Conference, duly authorized, sign this amendment in Managua, Nicaragua, on November 2, 1984, with the one original in each of the languages of the Latin-American Economic System (SELA), all of which are equally valid. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

