
 Agreement On The Protection Of Confidentiality Of Data Related To Deep Seabed Areas For Which Application Of Authorisation Has Been Made   
     Filename: 1984-ConfidentialDataDeepSeabed.EN.txt 
 Source: International Environmental Law, Multilateral Agreements B7:984:94/1     
    ﻿Agreement On The Protection Of Confidentiality Of Data Related To Deep Seabed Areas For Which Application Of Authorisation Has Been Made
Source: International Environmental Law, Multilateral Agreements B7:984:94/1
The representatives of the Government of the French Republic, the Government of India, the Government of Japan and the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics hereinafter referred to as the "Parties",
Seeking to implement the Understanding on the Procedure for Conflict Resolution among the First Group of Applicants, reached at the second session of the Preparatory Commission for the International Sea-Bed Authority and for the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea,
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Each Party shall take appropriate measures to ensure confidentiality of the coordinates of the areas, specified in the applications submitted by all other Parties to the Preparatory Commission, as well as of other proprietary or confidential information concerning those areas, received from the other. Parties in confidence in the course of the exchange of the coordinates of the areas or possible negotiations on the resolution of conflicts with regard to the boundaries of the areas.
In particular, the Parties shall take appropriate measures to ensure that individuals subject to their jurisdiction, having access to that kind of information, preserve its confidentiality.
Article 2
Each Party shall preserve the confidentiality of the coordinates of the application areas of the other Parties referred to in Article 1 until the respective applications by these other Parties are registered by the Preparatory Commission.
Article 3
The Parties shall preserve the confidentiality of other information referred to in Article 1 as long as the Party that provided this information considers it confidential.
Article 4
The Parties shall apply sanctions under their national laws and regulations in case of disclosure by individuals subject to their jurisdiction in contravention of the terms of this Agreement of the information referred to in Article 1.
Article 5
The Parties shall consult with each other, when appropriate, to facilitate the implementation of this Agreement.
Article 6
The Parties shall implement this Agreement in accordance with their national laws and regulations.
Article 7
(1) A Party may, after the date of registration by the Preparatory Commission of all the pioneer investors of the first group of applicants, denounce this Agreement by written notice to all other Parties, subject to paragraph (2) of this Article. Such denunciation shall become effective 180 days from the date of the latest receipt of such notice.
(2) Denunciation by a Party pursuant to paragraph (1) of this Article shall not affect the Parties' obligation under Articles 3 and 4.
Article 8
The present Agreement shall enter into force on the date of its signature and shall remain in force until otherwise agree by the Parties, subject to Article 7.
Done at Geneva, this 17th day of December 1984, in four copies each in the French, English, Japanese and Russian languages all the texts being equally authentic. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

