
 Protocol III To The South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty   
     Filename: 1985-Protocol3-1985-SouthPacificNuclearFreeZone.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/1986/32.html     
    ﻿South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty
Source: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/1986/32.html, 20040817
PROTOCOL 3
The Parties to this Protocol
Noting the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty (the Treaty)
Have Agreed as follows:
Article 1
Each Party undertakes not to test any nuclear explosive device anywhere within the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone.
Article 2
Each Party may, by written notification to the depositary, indicate its acceptance from the date of such notification of any alteration to its obligation under this Protocol brought about by the entry into force of an amendment to the Treaty pursuant to Article 11 of the Treaty or by the extension of the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone pursuant to Article 12(3) of the Treaty.
Article 3
This Protocol shall be open for signature by France, the People's Republic of China, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America.
Article 4
This Protocol shall be subject to ratification.
Article 5
This Protocol is of a permanent nature and shall remain in force indefinitely, provided that each Party shall, in exercising its national sovereignty, have the right to withdraw from this Protocol if it decides that extraordinary events, related to the subject matter of this Protocol, have jeopardised its supreme interests. It shall give notice of such withdrawal to the depositary three months in advance. Such notice shall include a statement of the extraordinary events it regards as having jeopardised its supreme interests.
Article 6
This Protocol shall enter into force for each State on the date of its deposit with the depositary of its instrument of ratification.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorised by their Governments, have signed this Protocol.
DONE at Suva this Eighth day of August, One thousand nine hundred and eighty-six, in a single original in the English language. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

