
 Amendments Of The Convention On Wetlands Of International Importance Especially As Waterfowl Habitat   
     Filename: 1987-Amendment-1971-Wetlands.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.ramsar.org/key_conv_e_regina.htm     
    ﻿Amendments Of The Convention On Wetlands Of International Importance Especially As Waterfowl Habitat
Source: http://www.ramsar.org/sites/default/files/documents/library/regina_amend..., downloaded 20160919
[The Amendments to Articles 6 and 7 of the Convention on Wetlands, commonly called the "Regina Amendments", were made possible by the entry into force of the Paris Protocol of 1982, which established an amendment procedure in new Article 10bis of the treaty text. They were drafted carefully over several years and then adopted by the 33 delegations present at the 2nd Extraordinary Conference of the Contracting Parties on 28 May 1987, with a reservation by the United States. Following acceptance of the Amendments by Denmark, fulfilling the required two-thirds of the nations which were Contracting Parties in 1987, the Amendments came into force on 1 May 1994 and thenceforward have been incorporated in the official language versions of the treaty text.]
Adopted by the Extraordinary Conference of the Contracting Parties
Article 6
1. The present text of paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the following wording: 
"There shall be established a Conference of the Contracting Parties to review and promote the implementation of this Convention. The Bureau referred to in Article 8, paragraph 1, shall convene ordinary meetings of the Conference of the Contracting Parties at intervals of not more than three years, unless the Conference decides otherwise, and extraordinary meetings at the written request of at least one third of the Contracting Parties. Each ordinary meeting of the Conference of the Contracting Parties shall determine the time and venue of the next ordinary meeting."
2. The introductory phrase of paragraph 2 shall read as follows: 
"The Conference of the Contracting Parties shall be competent:"
3. An additional item shall be included at the end of paragraph 2, as follows:
"(f) to adopt other recommendations, or resolutions, to promote the functioning of this Convention."
4. A new paragraph 4 is added which would read as follows:
"The Conference of the Contracting Parties shall adopt rules of procedure for each of its meetings.
5. New paragraphs 5 and 6 are added, which would read as follows:
Paragraph 5: "The Conference of the Contracting Parties shall establish and keep under review the financial regulations of this Convention. At each of its ordinary meetings, it shall adopt the budget for the next financial period by a two-third majority of Contracting Parties present and voting.
Paragraph 6: "Each Contracting Party shall contribute to the budget according to a scale of contributions adopted by unanimity of the Contracting Parties present and voting at a meeting of the ordinary Conference of the Contracting Parties."
Article 7
Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following wording:
"Each of the Contracting Parties represented at a Conference shall have one vote, recommendations, resolutions and decisions being adopted by a simple majority of the Contracting Parties present and voting, unless otherwise provided for in this Convention." 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

