
 Amendment Regarding Permits To Annex III To The Convention On The Prevention Of Marine Pollution By Dumping Of Wastes And Other Matter (concerning characteristics and composition of matter to be dumped at sea)   
     Filename: 1989-Amendment-1972-MarinePollutionDumpingWastesOtherMatter.EN.txt 
 Source: https://iea.uoregon.edu/MarineMammals/engine/Documents/0-1832-1833.htm     
    ﻿Amendment to the Annex to the Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter
Source: https://iea.uoregon.edu/MarineMammals/engine/Documents/0-1832-1833.htm
AMENDMENT OF ANNEX III TO THE LONDON DUMPING CONVENTION
Resolution LDC.37(12) adopted on 3 November 1989
THE TWELFTH CONSULTATIVE MEETING,
RECALLING resolution LDC.26(10) by which Contracting Parties agreed in principle to the inclusion in Annex III, section A of the following text:
"9. In issuing a permit for dumping, Contracting Parties should consider whether an adequate scientific basis exists concerning characteristics and composition of the matter to be dumped to assess the impact of the matter on marine life and on human health.",
NOTING that by the above resolution LDC.26(10) Contracting Parties were invited to indicate in writing to the Secretary-General of the International Maritime Organization if they do not expect to be in a position to adopt formally the amendment at the Consultative Meeting designated for formal adoption and that no such notifications were received,
NOTING FURTHER that by resolution LDC.26(10) the Twelfth Consultative Meeting was designated for formal adoption of the above amendment,
RECALLING previous decisions of the Consultative Meetings that the amendments to the Convention agreed in principle by the Consultative Meeting should be implemented by Contracting Parties on a voluntary basis until their formal adoption,
1. ADOPTS the amendment to Annex III, section A of the Convention in accordance with Article XV(2) thereof
2. ENTRUSTS the International Maritime Organization with the task of ensuring, in collaboration with the Governments of China, France, Spain, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, that the texts of the above amendment are drawn up by 1 January 1990 in all official languages of the Consultative Meeting with the linguistic consistency in each text. The texts would then become the authentic texts of the amendment of Annex III in accordance with Article XXII of the Convention.
3. RESOLVES that for the purposes of Articles XIV(4)(a) and XV(2) of the Convention, 8 February 1990 shall be treated as the date of the approval of the amendment.
4. REQUESTS the Secretary-General of the Organization to inform Contracting Parties of the above-mentioned amendment. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

