
 Protocol I To The Convention For The Prohibition Of Fishing With Long Driftnets In The South Pacific   
     Filename: 1990-Protocol1-1989-ProhibitionDriftnetsSouthPacific.EN.txt 
 Source: http://fletcher.tufts.edu/multi/texts/BH954.txt     
    ﻿Protocol I to the CONVENTION FOR THE PROHIBITION OF FISHING WITH LONG DRIFTNETS IN THE SOUTH PACIFIC
Source: http://fletcher.tufts.edu/multi/texts/BH954.txt
The Parties to this Protocol,
NOTING the provisions of the Convention for the Prohibition of Fishing with Long driftnets in the South Pacific ("the Convention")
HAVE AGREED as follows:
Article 1 Application of the Convention
Nothing in this Protocol shall affect or prejudice the views or positions of any Party with respect to the law of the sea.
Article 2 Measures regarding nationals and vessels
Each Party undertakes to prohibit its nationals and fishing vessels documented under its laws from using driftnets within the Convention Area.
Article 3 Transmission of information
Each Party shall expeditiously convey to the FFA:
(a) information on the measures adopted by it pursuant to the implementation of this Protocol; and
(b) information on, and scientific analyses on the effects of, driftnet fishing activities relevant to the Convention Area.
Article 4 Conservation and management measures
Parties to this Protocol shall cooperate with Parties to the Convention in the development of conservation and management measures for South Pacific albacore tuna within the Convention Area.
Article 5 Enforcement
Each Party shall take appropriate measures to ensure the application of the provisions of this Protocol.
Article 6 Withdrawal
At any time after three years from the date on which this Protocol has entered into force for a Party, that Party may withdraw from the Protocol by giving written notice to the Depositary. The Depositary shall immediately inform all Parties to the Convention or its Protocols of receipt of a withdrawal notice. Withdrawal shall take effect one year after receipt of such notice by the Depositary.
Article 7 Final clauses
(1) This Protocol shall be open for signature by any State whose nationals or fishing vessels documented under its laws fish within the Convention Area or by any other State invited to sign by the Parties to the Convention.
(2) This Protocol shall be subject to ratification. Instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Government of New Zealand, which shall be the Depositary.
(3) This Protocol shall enter into force for each State on the date of deposit of its instrument of ratification with the Depositary.
(4) This Protocol shall not be subject to reservations.
DONE at Noumea this twentieth day of October 1990.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorised by their Governments, have signed this Protocol. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

