
 Agreement On Cooperation In The Field Of Joint Water Resources Management And Conservation Of Interstate Sources   
     Filename: 1992-JointWaterResourcesManagement.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.dundee.ac.uk/iwlri/Documents/Treaties/Basin%20Specific%20and%20Bilate…     
    ﻿Agreement Between The Republic Of Kazakhstan , The Republic Of Kirgyzstan, The Republic Of Uzbekistan, The Republic Of Tajikistan And Turkmenistan On Cooperation In The Field Of Joint Water Resources Management And Conservation Of Interstate Sources
Source: http://www.dundee.ac.uk/iwlri/Documents/Treaties/Basin%20Specific%20and%...
The Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republic of Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of Uzbekistan, the Republic of Tajikistan and Turkmenistan, hereinafter called the Parties,
Guided by the necessity of approved and organized solution of the problems of joint management of water of interstate sources, and in further pursuance of agreed policy of economic development and raising of the peoples' standard of living;
Based on the historical community of peoples living on the territory of the Republics, their equal rights and responsibility for providing rational use and protection of water resources;
Recognizing the unbreakable interdependence and relationship of the interests of all the Republics in solving problems of joint use of water resources on the basis of common principles for the whole region and equitable regulation of their consumption;
Considering that only unification and joint coordination of action will create favorable conditions for solving social and economic problems, will allow mitigation and stabilization of ecological stresses, which originated as a consequence of water resources depletion, and taking into account that in the Republic of Tajikistan there is a disproportionate amount of irrigated land per capita, and recognizing possible increase in water supply for irrigated agriculture;
Respecting the existing pattern and principles of water allocation, and based on acting regulations of water allocation from interstate sources, the parties agreed as follows:
Article 1
Recognizing the community and unity of the region's water resources, the Parties have equal rights for their use and responsibility for ensuring their rational use and protection.
Article 2
The Parties are obliged to provide for strict observation of agreed order and the establishment of rules of water resources use and protection.
Article 3
Each of the Parties to this Agreement is obliged to prevent actions on its territory which can infringe on the interests of the other Parties and cause damage to them, lead to deviation from agreed values of water discharges and pollution of water sources.
Article 4
The Parties are obliged to carry out joint works for solving ecological problems, related with the Aral Sea desiccation, and establish sanitary water discharge volumes for each year on the basis of water availability of interstate sources.
During extremely dry years a special separate decision shall be taken on the problems of water supply to the regions of acute water deficiency.
Article 5
The Parties shall facilitate wide information exchange on scientific-technical progress in water economy, complex use and protection of water resources, conducting joint research for scientific-technical support of problems and expertise in water related projects.
Article 6
The Parties take decisions on the joint use of production potential of the Republics' water economy.
Article 7
The Parties decided to establish on parity conditions an Interstate Coordinating Water Management Commission on the problems of regulation, rational use and protection of water resources from interstate sources, including in its membership first authorities of water management agencies, having envisaged quarterly meetings, and if required on Parties initiative.
Meetings of the above-said Commission are held in succession under chairmanship of state representatives and in corresponding capital.
Article 8
The Coordinating Water Management Commission will be responsible for:
* Determination of water management policy in the region, elaboration of its trends with regard for the needs of all branches of national economy, complex and rational use of water resources, long-term program of water supply in the region and measures for its implementation;
* Elaboration and approval of water use limits, annually for each Republic and the region on the whole, corresponding operations schedule for water reservoirs, their correction by specified forecasts depending on actual water availability and the water management situation.
Article 9
The executive and interdepartmental organs of the Interstate Coordination Water Management Commission shall specify the basin water management associations "Syrdarya" and "Amudarya" which shall function on conditions that all structures and facilities on the rivers and water services operated by them are the property of the corresponding Republic which owns them and should be deemed transferred for temporary use with out the right of transfer and redemption as stated by 1 January 1992.
Basin water management associations are maintained at the expense of allocations of water management organs of the Republics on the basis of parity and sharing.
Article 10
The Interstate Coordination Water Management Commission and its executive body shall provide for:
Strict observance of release regimes and water use limits;
Implementation of measures on the rational and economic use of water resources, sanitary water discharges along the river channels and through the irrigation systems (where they are planned), delivery of guaranteed water volume to the river deltas and the Aral Sea for the purpose of rehabilitating of ecological condition, preservation of water quality in accordance with achieved agreements.
Article 11
Decisions adopted by the Interstate Coordination Water Management Commission on the observance of limits for water withdrawal, rational use and protection of water resources are binding for all water consumers and water users.
Article 12
The Parties agreed to elaborate within 1992 the mechanism of economic and such other responsibility for violation of the agreed regime and limits of water use.
Article 13
All disputable matters are solved by the heads of water management agencies of the Republics, and, if needed, with participation of a representative of the party concerned.
Article 14
Agreements may be changed or supplemented only by way of joint consideration of all parties to this agreement.
Article 15
This Agreement enters into force the date of signing.
Agreement accepted in Alma-Ata 18 February, 1992.
On behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Kipshakbaev
On behalf of the Republic of Kyrgyzstan M. Zulpuev
On behalf of the Republic of Tajikistan A. Nurov
On behalf of the Republic of Uzbekistan R. Giniatulin
On behalf of Turkmenistan A. Ilamanov 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

