
 Agreement On Cooperation In Research, Conservation And Management Of Marine Mammals In The North Atlantic   
     Filename: 1992-MarineMammalsNorthAtlantic.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.nammco.no/Agreement.htm     
    ﻿Agreement On Cooperation In Research, Conservation And Management Of Marine Mammals In The North Atlantic
Source: http://www.nammco.no/Agreement.htm
The Parties,
IN PURSUANCE of the objectives laid down in the Memorandum of Understanding, signed at Tromsø on 19 April 1990, on cooperation between countries bordering the North Atlantic Ocean in research, conservation and management of marine mammals;
HAVING REGARD to their common concerns for the rational management, conservation and optimum utilization of the living resources of the sea in accordance with generally accepted principles of international law as reflected in the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea;
DESIRING to enhance their cooperation in research on marine mammals and their role in the ecosystem, including, where appropriate, multi-species approaches, and on the effects of marine pollution and other human activities;
BEARING IN MIND the need to develop management procedures which take into account the relationship between marine mammals and other marine living resources;
RECALLING the general principles of conservation and sustainable use of natural resources as reflected in the report of the World Commission on Environment and Development;
CONVINCED that regional bodies in the North Atlantic can ensure effective conservation, sustainable marine resource utilization and development with due regard to the needs of coastal communities and indigenous people;
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
There is hereby established an international organization that shall be known as the North Atlantic Marine Mammal Commission (NAMMCO).
Article 2
The objective of the Commission shall be to contribute through regional consultation and cooperation to the conservation, rational management and study of marine mammals in the North Atlantic.
Article 3
The Commission shall consist of:
(a) a Council;
(b) Management Committees;
(c) a Scientific Committee;
(d) a Secretariat.
Article 4
1. Each Party shall be a member of the Council.
2. The functions of the Council shall be:
(a) to provide a forum for the study, analysis and exchange of information among the Parties on matters concerning marine mammals in the North Atlantic;
(b) to establish appropriate Management Committees and coordinate their activities;
(c) to establish guidelines and objectives for the work of the Management Committees;
(d) to establish working arrangements with the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea and other appropriate organizations;
(e) to coordinate requests for scientific advice;
(f) to establish cooperation with States not Parties to this Agreement in order to further the objective set out in Article 2.
3. Decisions of the Council shall be taken by the unanimous vote of those members present and casting an affirmative vote.
Article 5
1. Management Committees shall with respect to stocks of marine mammals within their respective mandates:
(a) propose to their members measures for conservation and management;
(b) make recommendations to the Council concerning scientific research.
2. Decisions of Management Committees shall be taken by the unanimous vote of those members present and casting an affirmative vote.
Article 6
1. The Scientific Committee shall consist of experts appointed by the Parties.
2. Subject to the approval of the Council, the Scientific Committee may invite other experts to participate in the conduct of its work.
3. The Scientific Committee shall provide scientific advice in response to requests from the Council, utilizing, to the extent possible, existing scientific information.
Article 7
1. The Council shall establish a Secretariat.
2. The Secretariat shall perform such functions as the Council may determine.
Article 8
The Council may agree to admit observers to meetings of the Commission when such admission is consistent with the objective set out in Article 2.
Article 9
This Agreement is without prejudice to obligations of the Parties under other international agreements.
Article 10
1. This Agreement shall be open for signature on 9 April 1992 by the Faroe Islands, Greenland, Iceland and Norway, and shall enter into force 90 days after signature.
2. It shall remain open for signature by other Parties with the consent of the existing Signatories.
3. Any Party may withdraw from this Agreement upon giving six months' notice.
Done at Nuuk on 9 April 1992. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

