
 Protocol On Cooperation In Combating Pollution Of The Black Sea Marine Environment By Oil And Other Harmful Substances In Emergency Situations   
     Filename: 1992-ProtocolPollutionEmergency-1992-BlackSeaPollution.EN.txt 
 Source:     
    ﻿Protocol On Cooperation In Combating Pollution Of The Black Sea Marine Environment By Oil And Other Harmful Substances In Emergency Situations
Source: https://iea.uoregon.edu/MarineMammals/engine/Documents/0-2538-2540.htm, and http://www.blacksea-commission.org/OfficialDocuments/Convention_iframe_m..., downloaded 20060526
Article 1
In accordance with Article IX of the Convention, the Contracting Parties shall take necessary measures and cooperate in cases of grave and imminent danger to the marine environment of the Black Sea or to the coast of one or more of the Parties due to the presence of massive quantities of oil or other harmful substances resulting from accidental causes or from accumulation of small discharges which are polluting or constituting a threat of pollution.
Article 2
The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to maintain and promote, either individually or through bilateral or multilateral cooperation, contingency plans for combating pollution of the sea by oil and other harmful substances. These shall include, in particular, equipment, vessels, aircraft and manpower prepared for operations in emergency situations.
Article 3
Each Contracting Party shall take necessary measures for detecting violations and, within areas under its jurisdiction for enforcing the provisions of this Protocol. Furthermore, the Contracting Parties shall ensure compliance with the provisions of this Protocol by vessels flying their flag.
The Contracting Parties shall promote exchange of information on subjects related to the implementation of this Protocol, including transmission of reports and urgent information which relate to Article 1 thereof.
Article 4
Any Contracting Party which becomes aware of cases where the marine environment of the Black Sea is in imminent danger of being damaged or has been significantly damaged by pollution, it shall immediately notify the other Contracting Parties it deems likely to be affected by such damage as well as the Commission.
Article 5
Each Contracting Party shall indicate to the other Contracting Parties and the Commission, the competent national authorities responsible for controlling and combatting of pollution by oil and other harmful substances. Each Contracting Party shall also designate a focal point to transmit and receive reports of incidents which have resulted or may result in a discharge of oil or other harmful substances, in accordance with the provisions of relevant international instruments.
Article 6
1. Each Contracting Party shall issue instructions to the masters of vessels flying its flag and to the pilots of aircraft registered in its territory requiring them to report in accordance with the Annex to this Protocol and by the most rapid and reliable channels, to the Party or Parties that might potentially be affected and to the Commission:
a) The presence, characteristics and extent of spillages of oil or other harmful substances observed at sea which are likely to present a threat to the marine environment of the Black Sea or to the coast of one or more Contracting Parties;
b) All emergency situations causing or likely to cause pollution by oil or other harmful substances.
2. The information collected in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be communicated to the other Parties which are likely to be affected by pollution:
a) by the Contracting Party which has received the information;
b) by the Commission.
ANNEX
Contents of the report to be made pursuant to Article 6
1. Each report shall contain in general:
a) The identification of the source of pollution;
b) The geographic position, time and date of occurence of the incident or of the observation;
c) Land and sea conditions prevailing in the area;
d) Relevant details with respect to the condition of the vessel polluting the sea.
2. Each report shall contain, whenever possible, in particular:
a) A clear indication or description of the harmful substances involved, including the correct technical names of such substances;
b) A statement of estimate of the quantities, concentrations and likely conditions of harmful substances discharged or likely to be discharged into the sea;
c) A description of packaging and identifying marks;
d) Name of the consignor, consignee, or manufacturer.
3. Each report shall clearly indicate, whenever possible, whether the harmful substances discharged or likely to be discharged are oil or noxious liquid, solid, or gaseous substances and whether such substances were or are carried in bulk or contained in packaged form, freight containers, portable tanks or road and rail tank wagons.
4. Each report shall be supplemented, as necessary, by any relevant information requested by a recipient of the report or deemed appropriate by the person sending the report.
5. Any of the persons referred to in Article 6 paragraph 1 of this Protocol shall:
a) Supplement the initial report, as far as possible and necessary, with information concerning further developments;
b) Comply as fully as possible with requests from affected Contracting Parties for additional information. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

