
 Protocol Amending The International Convention For The Conservation Of Atlantic Tunas   
     Filename: 1992-Protocol-1966-AtlanticTunas.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.fao.org/Legal/treaties/madrid-e.htm     
    ﻿Protocol Of Madrid To Amend Paragraph 2 Of Article X Of The International Convention For The Conservation Of Atlantic Tunas
Source: http://www.fao.org/Legal/treaties/madrid-e.htm
The Contracting Parties to the International Convention for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas, adopted in Rio de Janeiro on May 14, 1966,
Have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE 1
Paragraph 2 of Article X of the Convention shall be modified as follows:
"2. Each Contracting party shall contribute annually to the budget of the Commission an amount calculated in accordance with a scheme provided for in the Financial Regulations, as adopted by the Commission. The Commission, in adopting this scheme, should consider inter alia each Contracting Party's fixed basic fees for Commission and Panel membership, the total round weight of catch and net weight of canned products of Atlantic tuna and tuna-like fishes and the degree of economic development of the Contracting Parties."
"The scheme of annual contributions in the Financial Regulations shall be established or modified only through the agreement of all the Contracting Parties present and voting. The Contracting Parties shall be informed of this ninety days in advance."
ARTICLE 2
The original of this Protocol, the English, French and Spanish texts of which are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. It shall be open for signature in Madrid on June 5, 1992 and thereafter in Rome. The Contracting parties to the Convention that have not signed the Protocol may nevertheless deposit their instruments of acceptance at any time. The Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations shall send a certified copy of this Protocol to each of the Contracting Parties to the Convention.
ARTICLE 3
This Protocol shall enter into force for all the Contracting Parties the ninetieth day following the deposit with the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations of the last instrument of approval, ratification or acceptance by three-quarters of the Contracting Parties, and these three-quarters shall include all of the Parties classified by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development as of June 5, 1992, as developed market economy countries. Any Contracting Party not included in this category of countries can, within six months following the notification of the adoption of the Protocol by the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, request the suspension of the entry into force of said Protocol. The provisions set out in the last sentence of paragraph 1 of Article XIII of the International Convention for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas shall apply mutatis mutandis.
ARTICLE 4
The scheme of calculating the amount of the contribution of each Contracting Party provided by the Financial Regulations, shall be applied from the financial period following that in which this Protocol enters into force.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, duly authorized representatives of the States listed below, have signed this Protocol:
For Angola
For Benin
For Brazil: Lindolfo L. Collor
For Canada: (signed)
For Cape Verde
For Côte d'Ivoire: Luc Koffi
For Equatorial Guinea
For France: E. Rousseau
For Gabon
For Ghana: T. Striggner Scott
For the Republic of Guinea
For Japan
For the Republic of Korea
For Morocco: Azeddine Guessous
For Portugal: A. Ribeiro Lima
For Russia
For Sao Tome and Principe
For South Africa
For Spain: A. Fernández Aguirre
For United States of America: (signed)
For Uruguay
For Venezuela
Done in Madrid on this Fifth of June, Nineteen Hundred and Ninety-two, in a single copy, in the English, French and Spanish languages, each text being equally authentic, the original text shall be deposited in the archives of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

