
 Cooperation Agreement On The Forecast, Prevention And Mitigation Of Natural And Technological Disasters   
     Filename: 1992-NaturalTechnologicalDisasters.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.sbg.ac.at/ver/links/bgbl/2002c228.pdf     
    ﻿Cooperation Agreement On The Forecast, Prevention And Mitigation Of Natural And Technological Disasters Among The Government Of The Republic Of Austria, The Government Of The Republic Of Croatia, The Government Of The Republic Of Hungary, The Government Of The Republic Of Italy, The Government Of The Republic Of Poland, The Government Of The Republic Of Slovenia
Source:
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA,
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA,
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY,
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ITALY,
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND,
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA,
Aware of the risks caused by natural and technological disasters which their respective countries are exposed to,
Desiring to develop cooperation in the field of forecast and prevention of natural and technological disasters,
Stressing the importance of coordinating their efforts to assist Contracting Parties struck by any such disaster
Convinced that enhanced collaboration also in the field of Civil Protection and Disaster Management will strengthen the ties of friendship among the Contracting Parties
agrees as follows:
Article 1
Cooperation in the field of forecast and prevention of major risks, entailing serious consequences for the safety of people, assets and environment, shall primarily include:
1. exchange of scientific and technical information and relevant data on a regular basis. This exchange of information will be carried out in conformity with the laws and regulations in force in eht territory of each Contracting Party;
2. implementation of common research programmes;
3. training of experts in the field of forecast, prevention and relief, in order to set up common programmes on Civil Protection and Disaster Management
Article 2
The trends of cooperation and the implementation of the provisions of Article 1 will be agreed upon by a Joint Committee, made up of representatives of the Contracting Parties.
The Joint Committee will give recommendations to the Contracting Parties as regards the implementation of Article 1 and will propose specific fields and priorities for the aforesaid cooperation.
The Joint Committee will meet once a year and exceptionally more often upon request of one of the Contracting Parties, it will be chaired in annual rotating shifts by each Contracting Party, following the English alphabetical order of the names of the members States.
The Joint Committee, if necessary, can designate Sub Committees in charge of specific sectors.
The Joint Committee will adopt its own rules of procedure.
Article 3
Closers cooperation should be envisaged among the Contracting Parties should a major natural or technological disaster occur in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties.
All procedures for stronger cooperation and tighter solidarity will be agreed upon by the Joint Committee mentioned in Article 2
Article 4
If a major disaster strikes a State not party to this Agreement the Contracting Parties willing to help that Country will coordinate their actions as to ensure a better result of their common efforts in compliance with the rules and trends set out by the Joint Committee mentioned in Article 2.
Article 5
Disputes arising from the interpretation and implementation of the present Agreement, which cannot be solved by the Joint Committee, will be settled through diplomatic channels.
Article 6
The present Agreement will not affect Bilateral Agreements on Civil Protection and Disatster Management and will be executed in accordance with International Agreements in the same field.
Article 7
The Contracting Parties inform each other of the designation of national Authority that will act as coordinator for the implementation of this Agreement.
Article 8
The Government of Italy will act as a Depository for this Agreement.
Article 9
The Contracting Parties to this Agreement will notify the Depository through diplomatic channels that this Agreement has been approved in accordance with their respective national legislations.
This Agreement will enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of three months after the date on which the Contracting Party has notified the Depository that the Agreement has been approved according to its national legislation.
This Agreement enters into force only among the Contracting Parties that have given the above notification to the Depository.
Article 10
This Agreement has an unlimited duration.
A Contracting Party wishing to withdraw from this Agreement will notify this decision to the Depository.
The withdrawing State will cease to be a Contracting Party six months after the notification has been received by the Depository.
The Depository will inform the other Contracting Parties of the withdrawal, which will only affect the relationship between the withdrawing State and the other Contracting Parties.
Article 11
Every other State, member of the Central European Initiative - aiming at a better regional cooperation among the Governments enumerated in the Preamble to this Agreement - can accede to this Agreement by informing the Depository in writing of its intention to accede, subject to the consent of all the Contracting Parties.
The accession will come into effect in compliance with the procedures set out in Article 9 which apply to the Contracting Parties.
The Depository will transmit a certified copy of the document of accession to the Government of each signatory State as well as to the Governments of the States that have acceded to this Agreement later.
Article 12
Done in Vienna on July, 18th 1992 in a single authentic English text, which will be deposited in the archives of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
For the Government Of The Republic Of Austria:
Alois Mock
For the Government Of The Republic Of Italy:
Vincenzo Scotti
For the Government Of The Republic Of Croatia:
Zdenko Skrabalo
For the Government Of The Republic Of Poland:
Krzysztof Skubiszewski
For the Government Of The Republic Of Hungary:
Geza Jeszenszky
For the Government Of The Republic Of Slovenia:
Dimitrij Rupel 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

