
 Establishment Agreement For The Center For International Forestry Research   
     Filename: 1993-CenterInternationalForestryResearchEstablishment.EN.txt 
 Source: http://kirra.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/1993/13.html     
    ﻿Establishment Agreement for the Center for International Forestry Research
Source: http://kirra.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/1993/13.html
WHEREAS the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (hereinafter referred to as CGIAR) is an informal association of national governments, international organizations and private institutions co-sponsored by the World Bank, the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (hereinafter referred to as FAO) and the United Nations Development Programme (hereinafter referred to as UNDP) formed for the purpose of contributing to sustainable improvements in the productivity of agriculture, forestry and fisheries in developing countries in ways that enhance nutrition and well-being, especially among low-income people;
WHEREAS the CGIAR has agreed that there should be established a Center for International Forestry Research (CIFOR) which will be concerned with forestry research that benefits developing countries;
WHEREAS, acknowledging that different regions in the world have their own unique and differing problems whose solution could be aided by international research, CIFOR will be a decentralized body with a headquarters in Indonesia and regional programs located in various countries;
WHEREAS CIFOR is intended to be an International Research Center within the CGIAR system;
WHEREAS members of the CGIAR intend to provide funds for the regular budget of CIFOR to enable the Center to assume its functions; and
WHEREAS the Parties to this Agreement wish to create CIFOR as an independent institution with suitable governance, full juridical personality and appropriate international status, authorities, privileges and immunities and the conditions necessary to enable it to operate effectively toward the attainment of its objectives;
THE PARTIES HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
Article 1
Establishment
There shall be established an independent international organization entitled the "Center for International Forestry Research" (hereinafter referred to as "CIFOR" or "the Center") which shall operate in accordance with the Constitution appended hereto and forming an integral part of this Agreement.
Article 2
Financial obligations
The Parties shall not be under any obligation to provide financial support to CIFOR beyond voluntary contributions. The Parties shall not be under any responsibility, individually or collectively, for any debts, liabilities or obligations of the Center. Financing of the Center's activities shall be undertaken pursuant to Article 17 of the Constitution.
Article 3
Signature and accession
1. This Agreement shall be open for signature by States at Canberra at the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade of Australia. It shall remain open for signature for a period of two years from the date of first signature.
2. After the expiration of the period specified in paragraph 1, this Agreement shall remain open for accession by any State, subject to prior approval by the Board of Trustees of CIFOR by simple majority.
3. Instruments of accession shall be deposited with the Depositary of this Agreement.
4. The Government of Australia shall be the Depositary of this Agreement.
Article 4
Entry into force
1. This Agreement and the Constitution appended hereto shall enter into force upon signature by three States[1]. The three original signatories to this Agreement shall thereafter be referred to as "the sponsors".
2. For each State depositing an instrument of accession, after the entry into force of this Agreement, this Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the month after the date of receipt by the Depositary of such instrument.
Article 5
Amendment
The amendment of this Agreement and fundamental provisions of the Constitution (as defined in Article 21 of the Constitution) shall be subject to the approval of the Parties to this Agreement. Such proposed amendments shall, following approval by the Board, be conveyed to Parties to this Agreement and shall enter into force 30 days after receipt by the Depositary of instruments of acceptance of the amendment from all Parties to this Agreement.
Article 6
Withdrawal and dissolution
Any Party to this Agreement may withdraw upon six months written notice to the other Parties through the Depositary. Such withdrawal shall in no way affect contractual or other obligations entered into by the Center prior to notice of withdrawal being given.
Article 7
Authentic Text
The authentic text of the p resent Agreement, including the Constitution appended thereto, shall be in the English language.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries, being duly authorized by their respective Governments, have signed this Agreement.
DONE at Canberra in a single original in the English language, on the fifth day of March, 1993.
For the Government of Australia:
[Signed[*]:]
JOHN KERIN
For the Government of Sweden:
[Signed*:]
BO HEINEBÄCK
For the Government of Switzerland:
[Signed *:]
PETER NIEDERBERGER
For the Government of the United States of America:
[Signed:]
MARILYN MEYERS 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

