
 Amendment Regarding Annex I To The Convention On The Prevention Of Marine Pollution By Dumping Of Wastes And Other Matter (Incineration at Sea)   
     Filename: 1993-AmendmentAnnexI-1972-MarinePollutionDumpingWastesOtherMatter.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.londonconvention.org/documents/lc72/lc1972.doc     
    ﻿AMENDMENTS TO ANNEX I TO THE CONVENTION ON THE PREVENTION OF MARINE POLLUTION BY DUMPING OF WASTES AND OTHER MATTER 29 DECEMBER 1972 CONCERNING INCINERATION AT SEA
Source: http://www.londonconvention.org/documents/lc72/lc1972.doc
(London, 12 November 1993)
THE SIXTEENTH CONSULTATIVE MEETING,
RECALLING Article I of the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and other Matter which states that Contracting Parties shall individually and collectively promote the effective control of all sources of pollution of the marine environment,
RECALLING ALSO resolutions LDC.35(11), LDC.39(13) and LC.47(15) on the status of incineration of noxious liquid wastes at sea and resolution LDC.44(14) on the application of a precautionary approach in environmental protection within the framework of the London Convention 1972,
RECALLING FURTHER the encouragement by UNCED Agenda 21, Chapter 17.30(b)(ii) to the Contracting Parties to take appropriate steps to stop ocean incineration of hazardous substances,
RECOGNIZING that Contracting Parties should give priority to no-waste and low-waste technology within the hierarchy of waste management,
NOTING that the incineration at sea of noxious liquid wastes by Contracting Parties ceased in February 1991,
REAFFIRMING the agreement that, in case Contracting Parties face difficulties in finding methods for environmentally sound management of their incinerable wastes, Contracting Parties take upon themselves to consider favourably requests for technical or scientific assistance, including transfer of relevant publicly available information, taking into account the outcome of the Global Waste Survey,
ADOPTS the following amendment to Annex I to the Convention in accordance with Articles XIV(4)(a) and XV(2) thereof, the text of which is set out in the attachment to this resolution,
REQUESTS the Secretary-General of the International Maritime Organization to inform the Contracting Parties of the above mentioned amendments in accordance with Article XV(1)(b) of the Convention.
ATTACHMENT
ANNEX I
The existing text of Annex I, paragraph 10 is replaced by the following:
"(a) Incineration at sea of industrial waste, as defined in paragraph 11 below, and sewage sludge is prohibited.
(b) The incineration at sea of any other wastes or matter requires the issue of a special permit.
(c) In the issue of special permits for incineration at sea Contracting Parties shall apply regulations as are developed under this Convention.
(d) For the purpose of this Annex:
(i) "Marine incineration facility" means a vessel, platform, or other man-made structure operating for the purpose of incineration at sea.
(ii) "Incineration at sea" means the deliberate combustion of wastes or other matter on marine incineration facilities for the purpose of their thermal destruction. Activities incidental to the normal operation of vessels, platforms or other man-made structures are excluded from the scope of this definition." 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

