
 Amendment To The Agreement On The Conservation Of Populations of European Bats   
     Filename: 1995-Amendment-1991-ConservationBatsEurope.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.eurobats.org/documents/agreement_text.htm     
    ﻿First Amendment to the Agreement on the Conservation of Bats in Europe
SRC: http://www.eurobats.org/documents/agreement_text.htm, 20040526
Resolution confirming the Amendment of the scope of the Agreement
RECOGNIZING the need for conservation measures to protect all species of Microchiroptera in Europe;
ACKNOWLEDGING the omission of European Molossidae species from the original Agreement;
REFERRING to the decision of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on the Conservation of the Migratory Species of Wild Animals, held in Nairobi between 7-11 June 1994, to add the European Free-tailed bat (Tadarida teniotis) to its Appendix II,
AGREES:
1. To incorporate the family Molossidae within the scope of the Agreement.
2. To replace the words "CHIROPTERA (Rhinolophidae and Vespertilionidae)" where they appear in the preamble to the Agreement with the words "MICROCHIROPTERA (Molossidae, Rhinolophidae and Vespertilionidae)".
3. To replace Article I(b) with:
"(b) "Bats" means European populations of Microchiroptera (Molossidae, Rhinolophidae and Vespertilionidae) occurring in Europe and non-European Range States". 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

