
 Agreement Between The Government Of The Republic Of Lithuania, Government Of The Republic Of Estonia, And The Government Of The Republic Of Latvia On Cooperation In The Field Of Environmental Protection   
     Filename: 1995-BalticEnvironmentalProtection.EN.txt 
 Source: http://faolex.fao.org/docs/pdf/mul17925.pdf     
    ﻿Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on Cooperation in the Field of Environmental Protection
Source: http://faolex.fao.org/docs/pdf/mul17925.pdf
The Government of the Republic of Lithuania, the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Latvia, hereinafter referred to as the "Parties",
acknowledging their responsibility for the improvement of the state of environment,
recognizing that each country having the sovereign right to use its natural resources, shall take measures to prevent the harmful transboundary effects of its activities,
acknowledging also that many environmental problems can be resolved in cooperation with international community,
bearing in mind the goals and principles of the Declaration of the United Nations Conference on Human Environment in Stockholm in 1972, and the Declaration of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, as well as the International agreements aimed at the protection of the Baltic Sea,
have agreed as follows:
Article 1
The Panics shall cooperate in order to:
- investigate regional environmental problems on bi- and multilateral basis;
- promote the intersectoral approach of tackling of environmental issues by integration of environmental considerations into other areas of economic development;
- increase the effectiveness of national and international tools for the protection of environment.
Article 2
The cooperation shall encompass inter alia the following sectors of environmental protection:
- sustainable use of natural and mineral resources;
- promotion of environmentally sound technologies, among others elaboration of technologies for the disposal of wastes;
- reduction of transboundary pollution of environment; protection of the sea;
- coordinated elaboration of environmental criteria for policy setting and environmental policy instruments;
- monitoring, prognosis and evaluation of the state of environment; coordination of nature protection, especially regarding endangered species of flora and fauna;
- radiation and nuclear safety issues;
- coordinated efforts in the field of hazardous waste management
Article 3
The Parties shall cooperate on the basis of agreements and technical protocols. The main forms and methods of cooperation shall be as follows:
- exchange of scientific information;
- arrangement otconfcrcnccs, symposia and expert meetings; exchange of scientists and experts;
- elaboration and implementation of joint programmes and projects;
- coordination and development of environmental standards and legal acts.
Article 4
The Parties shall exchange the information on the state environment on regular basis.
In case of environmental emergencies Parties shall inform the other Parties concerned and take immediate coordinated actions In the order to liquidate the consequences of such emergencies.
Article 5
Shall one of Parties feel the emergence of the environmental danger caused by activities planned or undertaken by other Party shall exchange the information on the activity, including the possibility of cooperation in the field of environmental impact assessment.
Article 6
The general coordination of activities under this Agreement shall be taken by the Baltic Council of Ministers.
Article 7
This Agreement is open for amendments. Amendment shall be approved on the basis of consensus.
Disputes between the Parties shall be settled by negotiations.
This Agreement can be supplemented by special agreements and technical protocols.
Article 8
This Agreement shall enter into force upon signature.
Each Party may withdraw this Agreement by written notification. The withdrawal shall enter into force within twelve months of the receipt of such written notification by other Parties. After the withdrawal of one Party the Agreement shall remain in force for the other two Parties.
Done in Tallinn on July 21, 1995 in three copies in Lithuanian, Estonian, Latvian and English each being equally authentic
In case of dispute the English text shall prevail.
For the Government of the Republic of Lithuania
For the Government of the Republic of Latvia
For the Government of the Republic of Estonia 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

