
 Protocol To The Treaty On Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon Free Zone   
     Filename: 1995-Protocol-1995-SoutheastAsiaNuclearWeaponFreeZone.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.aseansec.org/282.htm     
    ﻿Protocol To The Treaty On Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon Free Zone
SRC: http://disarmament.un.org/treaties/t/bangkok_protocol/text, 20150215
The States Parties to this Protocol,
Desiring to contribute to efforts towards achieving general and complete disarmament of nuclear weapons, and thereby ensuring international peace and security, including in Southeast Asia;
Noting the Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone, signed at Bangkok on the fifteenth day of December, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-five;
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Each State Party undertakes to respect the Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone, hereinafter referred to as the “Treaty”, and not to contribute to any act which constitutes a violation of the Treaty or its Protocol by States Parties to them.
Article 2
Each State Party undertakes not to use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against any State Party to the Treaty. It further undertakes not to use or threaten to use nuclear weapons within the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone.
Article 3
This Protocol shall be open for signature by the People’s Republic of China, the French Republic, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America.
Article 4
Each State Party undertakes, by written notification to the Depositary State, to indicate its acceptance or otherwise of any alteration to its obligation under this Protocol that may be brought about by the entry into force of an amendment to the Treaty pursuant to Article 19 thereof.
Article 5
This Protocol is of a permanent nature and shall remain in force indefinitely, provided that each State Party shall, in exercising its national sovereignty, have the right to withdraw from this Protocol if it decides that extraordinary events, related to the subject-matter of this Protocol, have jeopardized its supreme national interests. It shall give notice of such withdrawal to the Depositary State twelve months in advance. Such notice shall include a statement of the extraordinary events it regards as having jeopardized its supreme national interests.
Article 6
This Protocol shall be subject to ratification.
Article 7
This Protocol shall enter into force for each State Party on the date of its deposit of its instrument of ratification with the Depositary State. The Depositary State shall inform the other States Parties to the Treaty and to this Protocol on the deposit of instruments of ratification.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized by their Governments, have signed this Protocol.
DONE at Bangkok this fifteenth day of December, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-five, in one original in the English language. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

