
 Protocol I To The African Nuclear Weapon Free Zone Treaty   
     Filename: 1996-Protocol1-1996-AfricanNuclearWeaponFreeZone.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.africa-union.org/Official_documents/Treaties_%20Conventions_%20Protoc…     
    ﻿Protocol I To The African Nuclear Weapon Free Zone Treaty
Source: http://www.africa-union.org/Official_documents/Treaties_%20Conventions_%..., 20040823
The Parties to this Protocol,
Convinced of the need to take all steps in achieving the ultimate goal of a world entirely free of nuclear weapons as well as the obligations of all States to contribute to this end,
Convinced also that the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty, negotiated and signed in accordance with the Declaration on the Denuclearization of Africa (AHG/Res.11(l)) of 1964, resolutions CM/Res.1342 (LIV) of 1991 and CM/Res.1395 (LVI) Rev.1 of 1992 of the Council of Ministers of the organization of African Unity and United Nations General Assembly Resolution 48/86 of 16 December 1993, constitutes an important measure towards ensuring the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, promoting cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, promoting general and complete disarmament, and enhancing regional and international peace and security,
Desirous of contributing in all appropriate manners to the effectiveness of the Treaty,
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Each Protocol Party undertakes not to use or threaten to use a nuclear explosive device against:
(a) Any Party to the Treaty; or
(b) Any territory within the African nuclear-weapon-free zone for which a State that has become a Party to Protocol III is internationally responsible as defined in annex 1.
Article 2
Each Protocol Party undertakes not to contribute to any act that constitutes a violation of the Treaty or of this Protocol.
Article 3
Each Protocol Party undertakes, by written notification to the Depositary, to indicate its acceptance or otherwise of any alteration to its obligation under this Protocol that may be brought about by the entry into force of an amendment to the Treaty pursuant to article 19 of the Treaty.
Article 4
This Protocol shall be open for signature by China, France, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America.
Article 5
This Protocol shall be subject to ratification.
Article 6
This Protocol is of a permanent nature and shall remain in force indefinitely, provided that each Party shall, in exercising its national sovereignty, have the right to withdraw from this Protocol if it decides that extraordinary events, related to the subject-matter of this Protocol, have jeopardized its supreme interests. It shall give notice of such withdrawal to the Depositary twelve months in advance. Such notice shall include a statement of the extraordinary events it regards as having jeopardized its supreme interests.
Article 7
This Protocol shall enter into force for each State on the date of its deposit with the Depositary of its instrument of ratification or the date of entry into force of the Treaty, whichever is later.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized by their Governments, have signed this Protocol. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

