
 Protocol To The Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty   
     Filename: 1996-Protocol-1996-ComprehensiveNuclearTestBanTreaty.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.ctbto.org/treaty/treaty_text.pdf     
    ﻿PROTOCOL TO THE COMPREHENSIVE NUCLEAR TEST-BAN TREATY
Source: Unofficial Text
PART I
THE INTERNATIONAL MONITORING SYSTEM AND INTERNATIONAL DATA CENTRE FUNCTIONS
A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
1. The International Monitoring System shall comprise monitoring facilities as set out in Article IV, paragraph 16, and respective means of communication.
2. The monitoring facilities incorporated into the International Monitoring System shall consist of those facilities specified in Annex 1 to this Protocol. The International Monitoring System shall fulfil the technical and operational requirements specified in the relevant operational manuals.
3. The Organization, in accordance with Article II, shall, in cooperation and consultation with the States Parties, with other States, and with international organizations as appropriate, establish and coordinate the operation and maintenance, and any future agreed modification or development of the International Monitoring System.
4. In accordance with appropriate agreements or arrangements and procedures, a State Party or other State hosting or otherwise taking responsibility for International Monitoring System facilities and the Technical Secretariat shall agree and cooperate in establishing, operating, upgrading, financing, and maintaining monitoring facilities, related certified laboratories and respective means of communication within areas under its jurisdiction or control or elsewhere in conformity with international law. Such cooperation shall be in accordance with the security and authentication requirements and technical specifications contained in the relevant operational manuals. Such a State shall give the Technical Secretariat authority to access a monitoring facility for checking equipment and communication links, and shall agree to make the necessary changes in the equipment and the operational procedures to meet agreed requirements. The Technical Secretariat shall provide to such States appropriate technical assistance as is deemed by the Executive Council to be required for the proper functioning of the facility as part of the International Monitoring System.
5. Modalities for such cooperation between the Organization and States Parties or States hosting or otherwise taking responsibility for facilities of the International Monitoring System shall be set out in agreements or arrangements as appropriate in each case.
B. SEISMOLOGICAL MONITORING
6. Each State Party undertakes to cooperate in an international exchange of seismological data to assist in the verification of compliance with this Treaty. This cooperation shall include the establishment and operation of a global network of primary and auxiliary seismological monitoring stations. These stations shall provide data in accordance with agreed procedures to the International Data Centre.
7. The network of primary stations shall consist of the 50 stations specified in Table 1-A of Annex 1 to this Protocol. These stations shall fulfil the technical and operational requirements specified in the Operational Manual for Seismological Monitoring and the International Exchange of Seismological Data. Uninterrupted data from the primary stations shall be transmitted, directly or through a national data centre, on-line to the International Data Centre.
8. To supplement the primary network, an auxiliary network of 120 stations shall provide information, directly or through a national data centre, to the International Data Centre upon request. The auxiliary stations to be used are listed in Table 1-B of Annex 1 to this Protocol. The auxiliary stations shall fulfill the technical and operational requirements specified in the Operational Manual for Seismological Monitoring and the International Exchange of Seismological Data. Data from the auxiliary stations may at any time be requested by the International Data Centre and shall be immediately available through on-line computer connections.
C. RADIONUCLIDE MONITORING
9. Each State Party undertakes to cooperate in an international exchange of data on radionuclides in the atmosphere to assist in the verification of compliance with this Treaty. This cooperation shall include the establishment and operation of a global network of radionuclide monitoring stations and certified laboratories. The network shall provide data in accordance with agreed procedures to the International Data Centre.
10. The network of stations to measure radionuclides in the atmosphere shall comprise an overall network of 80 stations, as specified in Table 2-A of Annex 1 to this Protocol. All stations shall be capable of monitoring for the presence of relevant particulate matter in the atmosphere. Forty of these stations shall also be capable of monitoring for the presence of relevant noble gases upon the entry into force of this Treaty. For this purpose the Conference, at its initial session, shall approve a recommendation by the Preparatory Commission as to which 40 stations from Table 2-A of Annex 1 to this Protocol shall be capable of noble gas monitoring. At its first regular annual session, the Conference shall consider and decide on a plan for implementing noble gas monitoring capability throughout the network. The Director-General shall prepare a report to the Conference on the modalities for such implementation. All monitoring stations shall fulfil the technical and operational requirements specified in the Operational Manual for Radionuclide Monitoring and the International Exchange of Radionuclide Data.
11. The network of radionuclide monitoring stations shall be supported by laboratories, which shall be certified by the Technical Secretariat in accordance with the relevant operational manual for the performance, on contract to the Organization and on a fee-for-service basis, of the analysis of samples from radionuclide monitoring stations. Laboratories specified in Table 2-B of Annex 1 to this Protocol, and appropriately equipped, shall, as required, also be drawn upon by the Technical Secretariat to perform additional analysis of samples from radionuclide monitoring stations. With the agreement of the Executive Council, further laboratories may be certified by the Technical Secretariat to perform the routine analysis of samples from manual monitoring stations where necessary. All certified laboratories shall provide the results of such analysis to the International Data Centre, and in so doing shall fulfil the technical and operational requirements specified in the Operational Manual on Radionuclide Monitoring and the International Exchange of Radionuclide Data.
D. HYDROACOUSTIC MONITORING
12. Each State Party undertakes to cooperate in an international exchange of hydroacoustic data to assist in the verification of compliance with this Treaty. This cooperation shall include the establishment and operation of a global network of hydroacoustic monitoring stations. These stations shall provide data in accordance with agreed procedures to the International Data Centre.
13. The network of hydroacoustic stations shall consist of the stations specified in Table 3 of Annex 1 to this Protocol, and shall comprise an overall network of six hydrophone and five T-phase stations. These stations shall fulfil the technical and operational requirements specified in the Operational Manual for Hydroacoustic Monitoring and the International Exchange of Hydroacoustic Data.
E. INFRASOUND MONITORING
14. Each State Party undertakes to cooperate in an international exchange of infrasound data to assist in the verification of compliance with this Treaty. This cooperation shall include the establishment and operation of a global network of infrasound monitoring stations. These stations shall provide data in accordance with agreed procedures to the International Data Centre.
15. The network of infrasound stations shall consist of the stations specified in Table 4 of Annex 1 to this Protocol, and shall comprise an overall network of 60 stations. These stations shall fulfil the technical an operational requirements specified in the Operational Manual for Infrasound Monitoring and the International Exchange of Infrasound Data.
F. INTERNATIONAL DATA CENTRE FUNCTIONS
16. The International Data Centre shall receive, collect, process, analyse, report on and archive data from International Monitoring System facilities, including the results of analysis conducted at certified laboratories.
17. The procedures and standard event screening criteria to be used by the International Data Centre in carrying out its agreed functions, in particular for the production of standard reporting products and for the performance of standard range of services for States Parties, shall be elaborated in the Operational Manual for the International Data Centre and shall be progressively developed. The procedures and criteria developed initially by the Preparatory Commission shall be approved by the Conference at its initial session.
International Data Centre Standard Products
18. The International Data Centre shall apply on a routine basis automatic processing methods and interactive human analysis to raw International Monitoring System data in order to produce and archive standard International Data Centre products on behalf of all States Parties. These products shall be provided at no cost to States Parties and shall be without prejudice to final judgements with regard to the nature of any event, which shall remain the responsibility of States Parties, and shall include:
(a) Integrated lists of all signals detected by the International Monitoring System, as well as standard event lists and bulletins, including the values and associated uncertainties calculated for each event located by the International Data Centre, based on a set of standard parameters;
(b) Standard screened event bulletins that result from the application to each event by the International Data Centre of standard event screening criteria, making use of the characterization parameters specified in Annex 2 to this Protocol, with the objective of characterising, highlighting in the standard event bulletin, and thereby screening out, events considered to be consistent with natural phenomena or non-nuclear, man-made phenomena. The standard event bulletin shall indicate numerically for each event the degree to which that event meets or does not meet the event screening criteria. In applying standard event screening, the International Data Centre shall use both global and supplementary screening criteria to take account of regional variations where applicable. The International Data Centre shall progressively enhance its technical capabilities as experience is gained in the operation of the International Monitoring System;
(c) Executive summaries, which summarize the data acquired and archived by the International Data Centre, the products of the International Data Centre, and the performance and operational status of the International Monitoring System and International Data Centre; and
(d) Extracts or subsets of the standard International Data Centre products specified in sub-paragraphs (a) to (c), selected according to the request of an individual State Party.
19. The International Data Centre shall carry out, at no cost to States Parties, special studies to provide in-depth, technical review by expert analysis of data from the International Monitoring System, if requested by the Organization or by a State Party, to improve the estimated values for the standard signal and event parameters.
International Data Centre Services to States Parties
20. The International Data Centre shall provide States Parties with open, equal, timely and convenient access to all International Monitoring System data, raw or processed, all International Data Centre products, and all other International Monitoring System data in the archive of the International Data Centre or, through the International Data Centre, of International Monitoring System facilities. The methods for supporting data access and the provision of data shall include the following services:
(a) Automatic and regular forwarding to a State Party of the products of the International Data Centre or the selection by the State Party thereof, and, as requested, the selection by the State Party of International Monitoring System data;
(b) The provision of the data or products generated in response to ad hoc requests by States Parties for the retrieval from the International Data Centre and International Monitoring System facility archives of data and products, including interactive electronic access to the International Data Centre data base; and
(c) Assisting individual States Parties, at their request and at no cost for reasonable efforts, with expert technical analysis of International Monitoring System data and other relevant data provided by the requesting State Party, in order to help the State Party concerned to identify the source of specific events. The output of any such technical analysis shall be considered a product of the requesting State Party, but shall be available to all States Parties.
The International Data Centre services specified in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) shall be made available at no cost to each State Party. The volumes and formats of data shall be set out in the Operational Manual for the International Data Centre.
National Event Screening
21. The International Data Centre shall, if requested by a State Party, apply to any of its standard products, on a regular and automatic basis, national event screening criteria established by that State Party, and provide the results of such analysis to that State Party. This service shall be undertaken at no cost to the requesting State Party. The output of such national event screening processes shall be considered a product of the requesting State Party.
Technical Assistance
22. The International Data Centre shall, where required, provide technical assistance to individual States Parties:
(a) In formulating their requirements for selection and screening of data and products;
(b) By installing at the International Data Centre, at no cost to a requesting State Party for reasonable efforts, computer algorithms or software provided by that State Party to compute new signal and event parameters that are not included in the Operational Manual for the International Data Centre, the output being considered products of the requesting State Party; and
(c) By assisting States Parties to develop the capability to receive, process and analyse International Monitoring System data at a national data centre.
23. The International Data Centre shall continuously monitor and report on the operational status of the International Monitoring System facilities, of communications links, and of its own processing systems. It shall provide immediate notification to those responsible should the operational performance of any component fail to meet agreed levels set out in the relevant operational manual.
PART II
ON-SITE INSPECTIONS
A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
1. The procedures in this Part shall be implemented pursuant to the provisions for on-site inspections set out in Article IV.
2. The on-site inspection shall be carried out in the area where the event that triggered the on-site inspection request occurred.
3. The area of an on-site inspection shall be continuous and its size shall not exceed 1000 square kilometres. There shall be no linear distance greater than 50 kilometres in any direction.
4. The duration of an on-site inspection shall not exceed 60 days from the date of the approval of the on-site inspection request in accordance with Article IV, paragraph 46, but may be extended by a maximum of 70 days in accordance with Article IV, paragraph 49.
5. If the inspection area specified in the inspection mandate extends to the territory or other place under the jurisdiction or control of more than one State Party, the provisions on on-site inspections shall, as appropriate, apply to each of the States Parties to which the inspection area extends.
6. In cases where the inspection area is under the jurisdiction or control of the inspected State Party but is located on the territory of another State Party or where the access from the point of entry to the inspection area requires transit through the territory of a State Party other than the inspected State Party, the inspected State Party shall exercise the rights and fulfil the obligations concerning such inspections in accordance with this Protocol. In such a case, the State Party on whose territory the inspection area is located shall facilitate the inspection and shall provide for the necessary support to enable the inspection team to carry out its tasks in a timely and effective manner. States Parties through whose territory transit is required to reach the inspection area shall facilitate such transit.
7. In cases where the inspection area is under the jurisdiction or control of the inspected State Party but is located on the territory of a State not Party to this Treaty, the inspected State Party shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the inspection can be carried out in accordance with this Protocol. A State Party that has under its jurisdiction or control one or more areas on the territory of a State not Party to this Treaty shall take all necessary measures to ensure acceptance by the State on whose territory the inspection area is located of inspectors and inspection assistants designated to that State Party. If an inspected State Party is unable to ensure access, it shall demonstrate that it took all necessary measures to ensure access.
8. In cases where the inspection area is located on the territory of a State Party but is under the jurisdiction or control of a State not Party to this Treaty, the State Party shall take all necessary measures required of an inspected State Party and a State Party on whose territory the inspection area is located, without prejudice to the rules and practices of international law, to ensure that the on-site inspection can be carried out in accordance with this Protocol. If the State Party is unable to ensure access to the inspection area, it shall demonstrate that it took all necessary measures to ensure access, without prejudice to the rules and practices of international law.
9. The size of the inspection team shall be kept to the minimum necessary for the proper fulfilment of the inspection mandate. The total number of members of the inspection team present on the territory of the inspected State Party at any given time, except during the conduct of drilling, shall not exceed 40 persons. No national of the requesting State Party or the inspected State Party shall be a member of the inspection team.
10. The Director-General shall determine the size of the inspection team and select its members from the list of inspectors and inspection assistants, taking into account the circumstances of a particular request.
11. The inspected State Party shall provide for or arrange the amenities necessary for the inspection team, such as communication means, interpretation services, transportation, working space, lodging, meals, and medical care.
12. The inspected State Party shall be reimbursed by the Organization, in a reasonably short period of time after conclusion of the inspection, for all expenses, including those mentioned in paragraphs 11 and 49, related to the stay and functional activities of the inspection team on the territory of the inspected State Party.
13. Procedures for the implementation of on-site inspections shall be detailed in the Operational Manual for On-Site Inspections.
B. STANDING ARRANGEMENTS
Designation of Inspectors and Inspection Assistants
14. An inspection team may consist of inspectors and inspection assistants. An on-site inspection shall only be carried out by qualified inspectors specially designated for this function. They may be assisted by specially designated inspection assistants, such as technical and administrative personnel, aircrew and interpreters.
15. Inspectors and inspection assistants shall be nominated for designation by the States Parties or, in the case of staff of the Technical Secretariat, by the Director-General, on the basis of their expertise and experience relevant to the purpose and functions of on-site inspections. The nominees shall be approved in advance by the States Parties in accordance with paragraph 18.
16. Each State Party, no later than 30 days after the entry into force of this Treaty for it, shall notify the Director-General of the names, dates of birth, sex, ranks, qualifications and professional experience of the persons proposed by the State Party for designation as inspectors and inspection assistants.
17. No later than 60 days after the entry into force of this Treaty, the Technical Secretariat shall communicate in writing to all States Parties an initial list of the names, nationalities, dates of birth, sex and ranks of the inspectors and inspection assistants proposed for designation by the Director-General and the States Parties, as well as a description of their qualifications and professional experience.
18. Each State Party shall immediately acknowledge receipt of the initial list of inspectors and inspection assistants proposed for designation. Any inspector or inspection assistant included in this list shall be regarded as accepted unless a State Party, no later than 30 days after acknowledgment of receipt of the list, declares its non-acceptance in writing. The State Party may include the reason for the objection. In the case of non-acceptance, the proposed inspector or inspection assistant shall not undertake or participate in on-site inspection activities on the territory or in any other place under the jurisdiction or control of the State Party that has declared its non-acceptance. The Technical Secretariat shall immediately confirm receipt of the notification of objection.
19. Whenever additions or changes to the list of inspectors and inspection assistants are proposed by the Director-General or a State Party, replacement inspectors and inspection assistants shall be designated in the same manner as set forth with respect to the initial list. Each State Party shall promptly notify the Technical Secretariat if an inspector or inspection assistant nominated by it can no longer fulfil the duties of an inspector or inspection assistant.
20. The Technical Secretariat shall keep the list of inspectors and inspection assistants up to date and notify all States Parties of additions or changes to the list.
21. A State Party requesting an on-site inspection may propose that an inspector from the list of inspectors and inspection assistants serve as its observer in accordance with Article IV, paragraph 61.
22. Subject to paragraph 23, a State Party shall have the right at any time to object to an inspector or inspection assistant who has already been accepted. It shall notify the Technical Secretariat of its objection in writing and may include the reason for the objection. Such objection shall come into effect 30 days after receipt of the notification by the Technical Secretariat. The Technical Secretariat shall immediately confirm receipt of the notification of the objection and inform the objecting and nominating States Parties of the date on which the inspector or inspection assistant shall cease to be designated for that State Party.
23. A State Party that has been notified of an inspection shall not seek the removal from the inspection team of any of the inspectors or inspection assistants named in the inspection mandate.
24. The number of inspectors and inspection assistants accepted by a State Party must be sufficient to allow for availability of appropriate numbers of inspectors and inspection assistants. If, in the opinion of the Director-General, the non-acceptance by a State Party of proposed inspectors or inspection assistants impedes the designation of a sufficient number of inspectors and inspection assistants or otherwise hampers the effective fulfilment of the purposes of an on-site inspection, the Director-General shall refer the issue to the Executive Council.
25. Each inspector included in the list of inspectors and inspection assistants shall receive relevant training. Such training shall be provided by the Technical Secretariat pursuant to the procedures specified in the Operational Manual for On-Site Inspections. The Technical Secretariat shall co-ordinate, in agreement with the States Parties, a schedule of training for the inspectors.
Privileges and Immunities
26. Following acceptance of the initial list of inspectors and inspection assistants as provided for in paragraph 18 or as subsequently altered in accordance with paragraph 19, each State Party shall be obliged to issue, in accordance with its national procedures and upon application by an inspector or inspection assistant, multiple entry/exit and/or transit visas and other relevant documents to enable each inspector and inspection assistant to enter and to remain on the territory of that State Party for the sole purpose of carrying out inspection activities. Each State Party shall issue the necessary visa or travel documents for this purpose no later than 48 hours after receipt of the application or immediately upon arrival of the inspection team at the point of entry on the territory of the State Party. Such documents shall be valid for as long as is necessary to enable the inspector or inspection assistant to remain on the territory of the inspected State Party for the sole purpose of carrying out the inspection activities.
27. To exercise their functions effectively, members of the inspection team shall be accorded privileges and immunities as set forth in sub-paragraphs (a) to (i). Privileges and immunities shall be granted to members of the inspection team for the sake of this Treaty and not for the personal benefit of the individuals themselves. Such privileges and immunities shall be accorded to them for the entire period between arrival on and departure from the territory of the inspected State Party, and thereafter with respect to acts previously performed in the exercise of their official functions.
(a) The members of the inspection team shall be accorded the inviolability enjoyed by diplomatic agents pursuant to Article 29 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 18 April 1961;
(b) The living quarters and office premises occupied by the inspection team carrying out inspection activities pursuant to this Treaty shall be accorded the inviolability and protection accorded to the premises of diplomatic agents pursuant to Article 30, paragraph 1, of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations;
(c) The papers and correspondence, including records, of the inspection team shall enjoy the inviolability accorded to all papers and correspondence of diplomatic agents pursuant to Article 30, paragraph 2, of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. The inspection team shall have the right to use codes for their communications with the Technical Secretariat;
(d) Samples and approved equipment carried by members of the inspection team shall be inviolable subject to provisions contained in this Treaty and exempt from all customs duties. Hazardous samples shall be transported in accordance with relevant regulations;
(e) The members of the inspection team shall be accorded the immunities accorded to diplomatic agents pursuant to Article 31, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations;
(f) The members of the inspection team carrying out prescribed activities pursuant to this Treaty shall be accorded the exemption from dues and taxes accorded to diplomatic agents pursuant to Article 34 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations;
(g) The members of the inspection team shall be permitted to bring into the territory of the inspected State Party, without payment of any customs duties or related charges, articles for personal use, with the exception of articles the import or export of which is prohibited by law or controlled by quarantine regulations;
(h) The members of the inspection team shall be accorded the same currency and exchange facilities as are accorded to representatives of foreign Governments on temporary official missions; and
(i) The members of the inspection team shall not engage in any professional or commercial activity for personal profit on the territory of the inspected State Party.
28. When transiting the territory of States Parties other than the inspected State Party, the members of the inspection team shall be accorded the privileges and immunities enjoyed by diplomatic agents pursuant to Article 40, paragraph 1, of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. Papers and correspondence, including records, and samples and approved equipment carried by them, shall be accorded the privileges and immunities set forth in paragraph 27 (c) and (d).
29. Without prejudice to their privileges and immunities the members of the inspection team shall be obliged to respect the laws and regulations of the inspected State Party and, to the extent that is consistent with the inspection mandate, shall be obliged not to interfere in the internal affairs of that State. If the inspected State Party considers that there has been an abuse of privileges and immunities specified in this Protocol, consultations shall be held between the State Party and the Director-General to determine whether such an abuse has occurred and, if so determined, to prevent a repetition of such an abuse.
30. The immunity from jurisdiction of members of the inspection team may be waived by the Director-General in those cases when the Director-General is of the opinion that immunity would impede the course of justice and that it can be waived without prejudice to the implementation of the provisions of this Treaty. Waiver must always be express.
31. Observers shall be accorded the same privileges and immunities accorded to members of the inspection team pursuant to this section, except for those accorded pursuant to paragraph 27 (d).
Points of Entry
32. Each State Party shall designate its points of entry and shall supply the required information to the Technical Secretariat no later than 30 days after this Treaty enters into force for it. These points of entry shall be such that the inspection team can reach any inspection area from at least one point of entry within 24 hours. Locations of points of entry shall be provided to all States Parties by the Technical Secretariat. Points of entry may also serve as points of exit.
33. Each State Party may change its points of entry by giving notice of such change to the Technical Secretariat. Changes shall become effective 30 days after the Technical Secretariat receives such notification, to allow appropriate notification to all States Parties.
34. If the Technical Secretariat considers that there are insufficient points of entry for the timely conduct of inspections or that changes to the points of entry proposed by a State Party would hamper such timely conduct of inspections, it shall enter into consultations with the State Party concerned to resolve the problem.
Arrangements for Use of Non-Scheduled Aircraft
35. Where timely travel to the point of entry is not feasible using scheduled commercial flights, an inspection team may utilize non-scheduled aircraft. No later than 30 days after this Treaty enters into force for it, each State Party shall inform the Technical Secretariat of the standing diplomatic clearance number for non-scheduled aircraft transporting an inspection team and equipment necessary for inspection. Aircraft routings shall be along established international airways that are agreed upon between the State Party and the Technical Secretariat as the basis for such diplomatic clearance.
Approved Inspection Equipment
36. The Conference, at its initial session, shall consider and approve a list of equipment for use during on-site inspections. Each State Party may submit proposals for the inclusion of equipment in the list. Specifications for the use of the equipment, as detailed in the Operational Manual for On-Site Inspections, shall take account of safety and confidentiality considerations where such equipment is likely to be used.
37. The equipment for use during on-site inspections shall consist of core equipment for the inspection activities and techniques specified in paragraph 69 and auxiliary equipment necessary for the effective and timely conduct of on-site inspections.
38. The Technical Secretariat shall ensure that all types of approved equipment are available for on-site inspections when required. When required for an on-site inspection, the Technical Secretariat shall duly certify that the equipment has been calibrated, maintained and protected. To facilitate the checking of the equipment at the point of entry by the inspected State Party, the Technical Secretariat shall provide documentation and attach seals to authenticate the certification.
39. Any permanently held equipment shall be in the custody of the Technical Secretariat. The Technical Secretariat shall be responsible for the maintenance and calibration of such equipment.
40. As appropriate, the Technical Secretariat shall make arrangements with States Parties to provide equipment mentioned in the list. Such States Parties shall be responsible for the maintenance and calibration of such equipment.
C. ON-SITE INSPECTION REQUEST, INSPECTION MANDATE AND NOTIFICATION OF INSPECTION
On-Site Inspection Request
41. Pursuant to Article IV, paragraph 37, the on-site inspection request shall contain at least the following information:
(a) The estimated geographical and vertical coordinates of the location of the event that triggered the request with an indication of the possible margin of error;
(b) The proposed boundaries of the area to be inspected, specified on a map and in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3;
(c) The State Party or States Parties to be inspected or an indication that the area to be inspected or part thereof is beyond the jurisdiction or control of any State;
(d) The probable environment of the event that triggered the request;
(e) The estimated time of the event that triggered the request, with an indication of the possible margin of error;
(f) All data upon which the request is based;
(g) The personal details of the proposed observer, if any; and
(h) The results of a consultation and clarification process in accordance with Article V, or an explanation, if relevant, of the reasons why such a consultation and clarification process has not been carried out.
Inspection Mandate
42. The mandate for an on-site inspection shall contain:
(a) The decision of the Executive Council on the on-site inspection request;
(b) The name of the State Party or States Parties to be inspected or an indication that the inspection area or part thereof is beyond the jurisdiction or control of any State;
(c) The location and boundaries of the inspection area specified on a map, taking into account all information on which the request was based and all other available technical information, in consultation with the requesting State Party;
(d) The planned types of activity of the inspection team in the inspection area;
(e) The point of entry to be used by the inspection team;
(f) Any transit or basing points, as appropriate;
(g) The name of the head of the inspection team;
(h) The names of members of the inspection team;
(i) The name of the proposed observer, if any; and
(j) The list of equipment to be used in the inspection area.
If a decision by the Executive Council pursuant to Article IV, paragraphs 46 to 49, necessitates a modification of the inspection mandate, the Director-General may update the mandate with respect to sub-paragraphs (d), (h) and (j), as appropriate. The Director-General shall immediately notify the inspected State Party of any such modification.
Notification of Inspection
43. The notification made by the Director-General pursuant to Article IV, paragraph 55 shall include the following information:
(a) The inspection mandate;
(b) The date and estimated time of arrival of the inspection team at the point of entry;
(c) The means of arrival at the point of entry;
(d) If appropriate, the standing diplomatic clearance number for non-scheduled aircraft; and
(e) A list of any equipment which the Director-General requests the inspected State Party to make available to the inspection team for use in the inspection area.
44. The inspected State Party shall acknowledge receipt of the notification by the Director-General no later than 12 hours after having received the notification.
D. PRE-INSPECTION ACTIVITIES
Entry Into the Territory of the Inspected State Party, Activities at the Point of Entry and Transfer to the Inspection Area
45. The inspected State Party that has been notified of the arrival of the inspection team shall ensure the immediate entry of the inspection team into its territory.
46. When a non-scheduled aircraft is used for travel to the point of entry, the Technical Secretariat shall provide the inspected State Party with a flight plan, through the National Authority, for the flight of the aircraft from the last airfield prior to entering the airspace of that State Party to the point of entry, no less than six hours before the scheduled departure time from that airfield. Such a plan shall be filed in accordance with the procedures of the International Civil Aviation Organization applicable to civil aircraft. The Technical Secretariat shall include in the remarks section of the flight plan the standing diplomatic clearance number and the appropriate notation identifying the aircraft as an inspection aircraft. If a military aircraft is used, the Technical Secretariat shall request prior authorization from the inspected State Party to enter its airspace.
47. No less than three hours before the scheduled departure of the inspection team from the last airfield prior to entering the airspace of the inspected State Party, the inspected State Party shall ensure that the flight plan filed in accordance with paragraph 46 is approved, so that the inspection team may arrive at the point of entry by the estimated arrival time.
48. Where necessary, the head of the inspection team and the representative of the inspected State Party shall agree on a basing point and a flight plan from the point of entry to the basing point and, if necessary, to the inspection area.
49. The inspected State Party shall provide for or arrange parking, security protection, servicing and fuel as required by the Technical Secretariat for the aircraft of the inspection team at the point of entry and, where necessary, at the basing point and at the inspection area. Such aircraft shall not be liable for landing fees, departure tax, and similar charges. This paragraph shall also apply to aircraft used for overflight during the on-site inspection.
50. Subject to paragraph 51, there shall be no restriction by the inspected State Party on the inspection team bringing approved equipment that is in conformity with the inspection mandate into the territory of that State Party, or on its use in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty and this Protocol.
51. The inspected State Party shall have the right, without prejudice to the time-frame specified in paragraph 54, to check in the presence of inspection team members at the point of entry that the equipment has been approved and certified in accordance with paragraph 38. The inspected State Party may exclude equipment that is not in conformity with the inspection mandate or that has not been approved and certified in accordance with paragraph 38.
52. Immediately upon arrival at the point of entry and without prejudice to the time-frame specified in paragraph 54, the head of the inspection team shall present to the representative of the inspected State Party the inspection mandate and an initial inspection plan prepared by the inspection team specifying the activities to be carried out by it. The inspection team shall be briefed by representatives of the inspected State Party with the aid of maps and other documentation as appropriate. The briefing shall include relevant natural terrain features, safety and confidentiality issues, and logistical arrangements for the inspection. The inspected State Party may indicate locations within the inspection area that, in its view, are not related to the purpose of the inspection.
53. After the pre-inspection briefing, the inspection team shall, as appropriate, modify the initial inspection plan, taking into account any comments by the inspected State Party. The modified inspection plan shall be made available to the representative of the inspected State Party.
54. The inspected State Party shall do everything in its power to provide assistance and to ensure the safe conduct of the inspection team, the approved equipment specified in paragraphs 50 and 51 and baggage from the point of entry to the inspection area no later than 36 hours after arrival at the point of entry, if no other timing has been agreed upon within the time-frame specified in paragraph 57.
55. To confirm that the area to which the inspection team has been transported corresponds to the inspection area specified in the inspection mandate, the inspection team shall have the right to use approved location-finding equipment. The inspected State Party shall assist the inspection team in this task.
E. CONDUCT OF INSPECTIONS
General Rules
56. The inspection team shall discharge its functions in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty and this Protocol.
57. The inspection team shall begin its inspection activities in the inspection area as soon as possible, but in no case later than 72 hours after arrival at the point of entry.
58. The activities of the inspection team shall be so arranged as to ensure the timely and effective discharge of its functions and the least possible inconvenience to the inspected State Party and disturbance to the inspection area.
59. In cases where the inspected State Party has been requested, pursuant to paragraph 43 (e) or in the course of the inspection, to make available any equipment for use by the inspection team in the inspection area, the inspected State Party shall comply with the request to the extent it can.
60. During the on-site inspection the inspection team shall have, inter alia:
(a) The right to determine how the inspection will proceed, consistent with the inspection mandate and taking into account any steps taken by the inspected State Party consistent with the provisions on managed access;
(b) The right to modify the inspection plan, as necessary, to ensure the effective execution of the inspection;
(c) The obligation to take into account the recommendations and suggested modifications by the inspected State Party to the inspection plan;
(d) The right to request clarifications in connection with ambiguities that may arise during the inspection;
(e) The obligation to use only those techniques specified in paragraph 69 and to refrain from activities that are not relevant to the purpose of the inspection. The team shall collect and document such facts as are related to the purpose of the inspection, but shall neither seek nor document information that is clearly unrelated thereto. Any material collected and subsequently found not to be relevant shall be returned to the inspected State Party;
(f) The obligation to take into account and include in its report data and explanations on the nature of the event that triggered the request, provided by the inspected State Party from the national monitoring networks of the inspected State Party and from other sources;
(g) The obligation to provide the inspected State Party, at its request, with copies of the information and data collected in the inspection area; and
(h) The obligation to respect the confidentiality and the safety and health regulations of the inspected State Party.
61. During the on-site inspection the inspected State Party shall have, inter alia:
(a) The right to make recommendations at any time to the inspection team regarding possible modification of the inspection plan;
(b) The right and the obligation to provide a representative to liaise with the inspection team;
(c) The right to have representatives accompany the inspection team during the performance of its duties and observe all inspection activities carried out by the inspection team. This shall not delay or otherwise hinder the inspection team in the exercise of its functions;
(d) The right to provide additional information and to request the collection and documentation of additional facts it believes are relevant to the inspection;
(e) The right to examine all photographic and measurement products as well as samples and to retain any photographs or parts thereof showing sensitive sites not related to the purpose of the inspection. The inspected State Party shall have the right to receive duplicate copies of all photographic and measurement products. The inspected State Party shall have the right to retain photographic originals and first-generation photographic products and to put photographs or parts thereof under joint seal within its territory. The inspected State Party shall have the right to provide its own camera operator to take still/video photographs as requested by the inspection team. Otherwise, these functions shall be performed by members of the inspection team;
(f) The right to provide the inspection team, from its national monitoring networks and from other sources, with data and explanations on the nature of the event that triggered the request; and
(g) The obligation to provide the inspection team with such clarification as may be necessary to resolve any ambiguities that arise during the inspection.
Communications
62. The members of the inspection team shall have the right at all times during the on-site inspection to communicate with each other and with the Technical Secretariat. For this purpose they may use their own duly approved and certified equipment with the consent of the inspected State Party, to the extent that the inspected State Party does not provide them with access to other telecommunications.
Observer
63. In accordance with Article IV, paragraph 61, the requesting State Party shall liaise with the Technical Secretariat to coordinate the arrival of the observer at the same point of entry or basing point as the inspection team within a reasonable period of the arrival of the inspection team.
64. The observer shall have the right throughout the inspection to be in communication with the embassy of the requesting State Party located in the inspected State Party or, in the case of absence of an embassy, with the requesting State Party itself.
65. The observer shall have the right to arrive at the inspection area and to have access to and within the inspection area as granted by the inspected State Party.
66. The observer shall have the right to make recommendations to the inspection team throughout the inspection.
67. Throughout the inspection, the inspection team shall keep the observer informed about the conduct of the inspection and the findings.
68. Throughout the inspection, the inspected State Party shall provide or arrange for the amenities necessary for the observer similar to those enjoyed by the inspection team as described in paragraph 11. All costs in connection with the stay of the observer on the territory of the inspected State Party shall be borne by the requesting State Party.
Inspection Activities and Techniques
69. The following inspection activities may be conducted and techniques used, in accordance with the provisions on managed access, on collection, handling and analysis of samples, and on overflights:
(a) Position finding from the air and at the surface to confirm the boundaries of the inspection area and establish coordinates of locations therein, in support of the inspection activities;
(b) Visual observation, video and still photography and multi-spectral imaging, including infrared measurements, at and below the surface, and from the air, to search for anomalies or artifacts;
(c) Measurement of levels of radioactivity above, at and below the surface, using gamma radiation monitoring and energy resolution analysis from the air, and at or under the surface, to search for and identify radiation anomalies;
(d) Environmental sampling and analysis of solids, liquids and gases from above, at and below the surface to detect anomalies;
(e) Passive seismological monitoring for aftershocks to localize the search area and facilitate determination of the nature of an event;
(f) Resonance seismometry and active seismic surveys to search for and locate underground anomalies, including cavities and rubble zones;
(g) Magnetic and gravitational field mapping, ground penetrating radar and electrical conductivity measurements at the surface and from the air, as appropriate, to detect anomalies or artifacts; and
(h) Drilling to obtain radioactive samples.
70. Up to 25 days after the approval of the on-site inspection in accordance with Article IV, paragraph 46, the inspection team shall have the right to conduct any of the activities and use any of the techniques listed in paragraph 69 (a) to (e). Following the approval of the continuation of the inspection in accordance with Article IV, paragraph 47, the inspection team shall have the right to conduct any of the activities and use any of the techniques listed in paragraph 69 (a) to (g). The inspection team shall only conduct drilling after the approval of the Executive Council in accordance with Article IV, paragraph 48. If the inspection team requests an extension of the inspection duration in accordance with Article IV, paragraph 49, it shall indicate in its request which of the activities and techniques listed in paragraph 69 it intends to carry out in order to be able to fulfil its mandate.
Overflights
71. The inspection team shall have the right to conduct an overflight over the inspection area during the on-site inspection for the purposes of providing the inspection team with a general orientation of the inspection area, narrowing down and optimizing the locations for ground-based inspection and facilitating the collection of factual evidence, using equipment specified in paragraph 79.
72. The overflight shall be conducted as soon as practically possible. The total duration of the overflight over the inspection area shall be no more than 12 hours.
73. Additional overflights using equipment specified in paragraphs 79 and 80 may be conducted subject to the agreement of the inspected State Party.
74. The area to be covered by overflights shall not extend beyond the inspection area.
75. The inspected State Party shall have the right to impose restrictions or, in exceptional cases and with reasonable justification, prohibitions on the overflight of sensitive sites not related to the purpose of the inspection. Restrictions may relate to the flight altitude, the number of passes and circling, the duration of hovering, the type of aircraft, the number of inspectors on board, and the type of measurements or observations. If the inspection team considers that the restrictions or prohibitions on the overflight of sensitive sites may impede the fulfilment of its mandate, the inspected State Party shall make every reasonable effort to provide alternative means of inspection.
76. Overflights shall be conducted according to a flight plan duly filed and approved in accordance with aviation rules and regulations of the inspected State Party. Flight safety regulations of the inspected State Party shall be strictly observed throughout all flying operations.
77. During overflights landing should normally be authorized only for purposes of staging or refueling.
78. Overflights shall be conducted at altitudes as requested by the inspection team consistent with the activities to be conducted, visibility conditions, as well as the aviation and the safety regulations of the inspected State Party and its right to protect sensitive information not related to the purposes of the inspection. Overflights shall be conducted up to a maximum altitude of 1500 metres above the surface.
79. For the overflight conducted pursuant to paragraphs 71 and 72, the following equipment may be used on board the aircraft:
(a) Field glasses;
(b) Passive location-finding equipment;
(c) Video cameras; and
(d) Hand-held still cameras.
80. For any additional overflights conducted pursuant to paragraph 73, inspectors on board the aircraft may also use portable, easily installed equipment for:
(a) Multi-spectral (including infrared) imagery;
(b) Gamma spectroscopy; and
(c) Magnetic field mapping.
81. Overflights shall be conducted with a relatively slow fixed or rotary wing aircraft. The aircraft shall afford a broad, unobstructed view of the surface below.
82. The inspected State Party shall have the right to provide its own aircraft, pre-equipped as appropriate in accordance with the technical requirements of the relevant operational manual, and crew. Otherwise, the aircraft shall be provided or rented by the Technical Secretariat.
83. If the aircraft is provided or rented by the Technical Secretariat, the inspected State Party shall have the right to check the aircraft to ensure that it is equipped with approved inspection equipment. Such checking shall be completed within the time-frame specified in paragraph 57.
84. Personnel on board the aircraft shall consist of:
(a) The minimum number of flight crew consistent with the safe operation of the aircraft;
(b) Up to four members of the inspection team;
(c) Up to two representatives of the inspected State Party;
(d) An observer, if any, subject to the agreement of the inspected State Party; and
(e) An interpreter, if necessary.
85. Procedures for the implementation of overflights shall be detailed in the Operational Manual for On-Site Inspections.
Managed Access
86. The inspection team shall have the right to access the inspection area in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty and this Protocol.
87. The inspected State Party shall provide access within the inspection area in accordance with the time-frame specified in paragraph 57.
88. Pursuant to Article IV, paragraph 57 and paragraph 86 above, the rights and obligations of the inspected State Party shall include:
(a) The right to take measures to protect sensitive installations and locations in accordance with this Protocol;
(b) The obligation, when access is restricted within the inspection area, to make every reasonable effort to satisfy the requirements of the inspection mandate through alternative means. Resolving any questions regarding one or more aspects of the inspection shall not delay or interfere with the conduct of the inspection team of other aspects of the inspection; and
(c) The right to make the final decision regarding any access of the inspection team, taking into account its obligations under this Treaty and the provisions on managed access.
89. Pursuant to Article IV, paragraph 57 (b) and paragraph 88 (a) above, the inspected State Party shall have the right throughout the inspection area to take measures to protect sensitive installations and locations and to prevent disclosure of confidential information not related to the purpose of the inspection. Such measures may include, inter alia:
(a) Shrouding of sensitive displays, stores, and equipment;
(b) Restricting measurements of radionuclide activity and nuclear radiation to determining the presence or absence of those types and energies of radiation relevant to the purpose of the inspection;
(c) Restricting the taking of or analysing of samples to determining the presence or absence of radioactive or other products relevant to the purpose of the inspection;
(d) Managing access to buildings and other structures in accordance with paragraphs 90 and 91; and
(e) Declaring restricted-access sites in accordance with paragraphs 92 to 96.
90. Access to buildings and other structures shall be deferred until after the approval of the continuation of the on-site inspection in accordance with Article IV, paragraph 47, except for access to buildings and other structures housing the entrance to a mine, other excavations, or caverns of large volume not otherwise accessible. For such buildings and structures, the inspection team shall have the right only of transit, as directed by the inspected State Party, in order to enter such mines, caverns or other excavations.
91. If, following the approval of the continuation of the inspection in accordance with Article IV, paragraph 47, the inspection team demonstrates credibly to the inspected State Party that access to buildings and other structures is necessary to fulfil the inspection mandate and that the necessary activities authorized in the mandate could not be carried out from the outside, the inspection team shall have the right to gain access to such buildings or other structures. The head of the inspection team shall request access to a specific building or structure indicating the purpose of such access, the specific number of inspectors, as well as the intended activities. The modalities for access shall be subject to negotiation between the inspection team and the inspected State Party. The inspected State Party shall have the right to impose restrictions or, in exceptional cases and with reasonable justification, prohibitions, on the access to buildings and other structures.
92. When restricted-access sites are declared pursuant to paragraph 89 (e), each such site shall be no larger than four square kilometres. The inspected State Party has the right to declare up to 50 square kilometers of restricted-access sites. If more than one restricted-access site is declared, each such site shall be separated from any other such site by a minimum distance of 20 metres. Each restricted-access site shall have clearly defined and accessible boundaries.
93. The size, location, and boundaries of restricted-access sites shall be presented to the head of the inspection team no later than the time that the inspection team seeks access to a location that contains all or part of such a site.
94. The inspection team shall have the right to place equipment and take other steps necessary to conduct its inspection up to the boundary of a restricted-access site.
95. The inspection team shall be permitted to observe visually all open places within the restricted-access site from the boundary of the site.
96. The inspection team shall make every reasonable effort to fulfil the inspection mandate outside the declared restricted-access sites prior to requesting access to such sites. If at any time the inspection team demonstrates credibly to the inspected State Party that the necessary activities authorized in the mandate could not be carried out from the outside and that access to a restricted-access site is necessary to fulfil the mandate, some members of the inspection team shall be granted access to accomplish specific tasks within the site. The inspected State Party shall have the right to shroud or otherwise protect sensitive equipment, objects and materials not related to the purpose of the inspection. The number of inspectors shall be kept to the minimum necessary to complete the tasks related to the inspection. The modalities for such access shall be subject to negotiation between the inspection team and the inspected State Party.
Collection, Handling and Analysis of Samples
97. Subject to paragraphs 86 to 96 and 98 to 100, the inspection team shall have the right to collect and remove relevant samples from the inspection area.
98. Whenever possible, the inspection team shall analyze samples on-site. Representatives of the inspected State Party shall have the right to be present when samples are analyzed on-site. At the request of the inspection team, the inspected State Party shall, in accordance with agreed procedures, provide assistance for the analysis of samples on-site. The inspection team shall have the right to transfer samples for off-site analysis at laboratories designated by the Organization only if it demonstrates that the necessary sample analysis can not be performed on-site.
99. The inspected State Party shall have the right to retain portions of all samples collected when these samples are analysed and may take duplicate samples.
100. The inspected State Party shall have the right to request that any unused samples or portions thereof be returned.
101. The designated laboratories shall conduct chemical and physical analysis of the samples transferred for off-site analysis. Details of such analysis shall be elaborated in the Operational Manual for On-Site Inspections.
102. The Director-General shall have the primary responsibility for the security, integrity and preservation of samples and for ensuring that the confidentiality of samples transferred for off-site analysis is protected. The Director-General shall do so in accordance with procedures contained in the Operational Manual for On-Site Inspections. The Director-General shall, in any case:
(a) Establish a stringent regime governing the collection, handling, transport and analysis of samples;
(b) Certify the laboratories designated to perform different types of analysis;
(c) Oversee the standardization of equipment and procedures at these designated laboratories and of mobile analytical equipment and procedures;
(d) Monitor quality control and overall standards in relation to the certification of these laboratories and in relation to mobile equipment and procedures; and
(e) Select from among the designated laboratories those which shall perform analytical or other functions in relation to specific investigations.
103. When off-site analysis is to be performed, samples shall be analyzed in at least two designated laboratories. The Technical Secretariat shall ensure the expeditious processing of the analysis. The samples shall be accounted for by the Technical Secretariat and any unused samples or portions thereof shall be returned to the Technical Secretariat.
104. The Technical Secretariat shall compile the results of the laboratory analysis of samples relevant to the purpose of the inspection. Pursuant to Article IV, paragraph 63, the Director-General shall transmit any such results promptly to the inspected State Party for comments and thereafter to the Executive Council and to all other States Parties and shall include detailed information concerning the equipment and methodology employed by the designated laboratories.
Conduct of Inspections in Areas beyond the Jurisdiction or Control of any State
105. In case of an on-site inspection in an area beyond the jurisdiction or control of any State, the Director-General shall consult with the appropriate States Parties and agree on any transit or basing points to facilitate a speedy arrival of the inspection team in the inspection area.
106. The States Parties on whose territory transit or basing points are located shall, as far as possible, assist in facilitating the inspection, including transporting the inspection team, its baggage and equipment to the inspection area, as well as providing the relevant amenities specified in paragraph 11. The Organization shall reimburse assisting States Parties for all costs incurred.
107. Subject to the approval of the Executive Council, the Director-General may negotiate standing arrangements with States Parties to facilitate assistance in the event of an on-site inspection in an area beyond the jurisdiction or control of any State.
108. In cases where one or more States Parties have conducted an investigation of an ambiguous event in an area beyond the jurisdiction or control of any State before a request is made for an on-site inspection in that area, any results of such investigation may be taken into account by the Executive Council in its deliberations pursuant to Article IV.
Post-Inspection Procedures
109. Upon conclusion of the inspection, the inspection team shall meet with the representative of the inspected State Party to review the preliminary findings of the inspection team and to clarify any ambiguities. The inspection team shall provide the representative of the inspected State Party with its preliminary findings in written form according to a standardized format, together with a list of any samples and other material taken from the inspection area pursuant to paragraph 98. The document shall be signed by the head of the inspection team. In order to indicate that he or she has taken notice of the contents of the document, the representative of the inspected State Party shall countersign the document. The meeting shall be completed no later than 24 hours after the conclusion of the inspection.
Departure
110. Upon completion of the post-inspection procedures, the inspection team and the observer shall leave, as soon as possible, the territory of the inspected State Party. The inspected State Party shall do everything in its power to provide assistance and to ensure the safe conduct of the inspection team, equipment and baggage to the point of exit. Unless agreed otherwise by the inspected State Party and the inspection team, the point of exit used shall be the same as the point of entry.
PART III
CONFIDENCE-BUILDING MEASURES
1. Pursuant to Article IV, paragraph 68, each State Party shall, on a voluntary basis, provide the Technical Secretariat with notification of any chemical explosion using 300 tonnes or greater of TNT-equivalent blasting material detonated as a single explosion anywhere on its territory, or at any place under its jurisdiction or control. If possible, such notification shall be provided in advance. Such notification shall include details on location, time, quantity and type of explosive used, as well as on the configuration and intended purpose of the blast.
2. Each State Party shall, on a voluntary basis, as soon as possible after the entry into force of this Treaty provide to the Technical Secretariat, and at annual intervals thereafter update, information related to its national use of all other chemical explosions greater than 300 tonnes TNT-equivalent. In particular, the State Party shall seek to advise:
(a) The geographic locations of sites where the explosions originate;
(b) The nature of activities producing them and the general profile and frequency of such explosions;
(c) Any other relevant detail, if available;
and to assist the Technical Secretariat in clarifying the origins of any such event detected by the International Monitoring System.
3. A State Party may, on a voluntary and mutually-acceptable basis, invite representatives of the Technical Secretariat or of other States Parties to visit sites within its territory referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2.
4. For the purpose of calibrating the International Monitoring System, States Parties may liaise with the Technical Secretariat to carry out chemical calibration explosions or to provide relevant information on chemical explosions planned for other purposes.
ANNEX 1 TO THE PROTOCOL
Table 1-A List of Seismological Stations Comprising the Primary Network 
#[TAB]State Responsible for Station[TAB]Location[TAB]Latitude[TAB]Longitude[TAB]Type
1[TAB]Argentina[TAB]PLCA
Paso Flores[TAB]40.7 S[TAB]70.6 W[TAB]3-C
2[TAB]Australia[TAB]WRA
Warramunga, NT[TAB]19.9 S[TAB]134.3 E[TAB]array
3[TAB]Australia[TAB]ASAR
Alice Springs, NT[TAB]23.7 S[TAB]133.9 E[TAB]array
4[TAB]Australia[TAB]STKA
Stephens Creek, SA[TAB]31.9 S[TAB]141.6 E[TAB]3-C
5[TAB]Australia[TAB]MAW
Mawson, Antarctica[TAB]67.6 S[TAB]62.9 E[TAB]3-C
6[TAB]Bolivia[TAB]LPAZ
La Paz[TAB]16.3 S[TAB]68.1 W[TAB]3-C
7[TAB]Brazil[TAB]BDFB
Brasilia[TAB]15.6 S[TAB]48.0 W[TAB]3-C
8[TAB]Canada[TAB]ULMC
Lac du Bonnet, Man.[TAB]50.2 N[TAB]95.9 W[TAB]3-C
9[TAB]Canada[TAB]YKAC
Yellowknife,
N.W.T.[TAB]62.5 N[TAB]114.6 W[TAB]array
10[TAB]Canada[TAB]SCH
Schefferville,
Quebec[TAB]54.8 N[TAB]66.8 W[TAB]3-C
11[TAB]Central African
Republic[TAB]BGCA
Bangui[TAB]05.2 N[TAB]18.4 E[TAB]3-C
12[TAB]China[TAB]HAI
Hailar[TAB]49.3 N[TAB]119.7 E[TAB]3-C &gt;
array
13[TAB]China[TAB]LZH
Lanzhou[TAB]36.1 N[TAB]103.8 E[TAB]3-C &gt;
array
14[TAB]Colombia[TAB]XSA
El Rosal[TAB]04.9 N[TAB]74.3 W[TAB]3-C
15[TAB]Côte d'Ivoire[TAB]DBIC
Dimbroko[TAB]06.7 N[TAB]04.9 W[TAB]3-C
16[TAB]Egypt[TAB]LXEG
Luxor[TAB]26.0 N[TAB]33.0 E[TAB]array
17[TAB]Finland[TAB]FINES
Lahti[TAB]61.4 N[TAB]26.1 E[TAB]array
18[TAB]France[TAB]PPT
Tahiti[TAB]17.6 S[TAB]149.6 W[TAB]3-C
19[TAB]Germany[TAB]GEC2
Freyung[TAB]48.9 N[TAB]13.7 E[TAB]array
20[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined
21[TAB]Iran
(Islamic Republic of)[TAB]THR
Tehran[TAB]35.8 N[TAB]51.4 E[TAB]3-C
22[TAB]Japan[TAB]MJAR
Matsushiro[TAB]36.5 N[TAB]138.2 E[TAB]array
23[TAB]Kazakstan[TAB]MAK
Makanchi[TAB]46.8 N[TAB]82.0 E[TAB]array
24[TAB]Kenya[TAB]KMBO
Kilimambogo[TAB]01.1 S[TAB]37.2 E[TAB]3-C
25[TAB]Mongolia[TAB]JAVM
Javhlant[TAB]48.0 N[TAB]106.8 E[TAB]3-C &gt;
array
26[TAB]Niger[TAB]New Site[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined[TAB]3-C &gt;
array
27[TAB]Norway[TAB]NAO
Hamar[TAB]60.8 N[TAB]10.8 E[TAB]array
28[TAB]Norway[TAB]ARAO
Karasjok[TAB]69.5 N[TAB]25.5 E[TAB]array
29[TAB]Pakistan[TAB]PRPK
Pari[TAB]33.7 N[TAB]73.3 E[TAB]array
30[TAB]Paraguay[TAB]CPUP
Villa Florida[TAB]26.3 S[TAB]57.3 W[TAB]3-C
31[TAB]Republic of Korea[TAB]KSRS
Wonju[TAB]37.5 N[TAB]127.9 E[TAB]array
32[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]KBZ
Khabaz[TAB]43.7 N[TAB]42.9 E[TAB]3-C
33[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]ZAL
Zalesovo[TAB]53.9 N[TAB]84.8 E[TAB]3-C &gt;
array
34[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]NRI
Norilsk[TAB]69.0 N[TAB]88.0 E[TAB]3-C 
35[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]PDY
Peleduy[TAB]59.6 N[TAB]112.6 E[TAB]3-C &gt;
array
36[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]PET
Petropavlovsk-
Kamchatskiy[TAB]53.1 N[TAB]157.8 E[TAB]3-C &gt;
array
37[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]USK
Ussuriysk[TAB]44.2 N[TAB]132.0 E[TAB]3-C &gt;
array
38[TAB]Saudi Arabia[TAB]New Site[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined[TAB]array
39[TAB]South Africa[TAB]BOSA
Boshof[TAB]28.6 S[TAB]25.6 E[TAB]3-C
40[TAB]Spain[TAB]ESDC
Sonseca[TAB]39.7 N[TAB]04.0 W[TAB]array
41[TAB]Thailand[TAB]CMTO
Chiang Mai[TAB]18.8 N[TAB]99.0 E[TAB]array
42[TAB]Tunisia[TAB]THA
Thala[TAB]35.6 N[TAB]08.7 E[TAB]3-C
43[TAB]Turkey[TAB]BRTR
Belbashi
The array is subject to relocation at Keskin[TAB]39.9 N[TAB]32.8 E[TAB]array
44[TAB]Turkmenistan[TAB]GEYT
Alibeck[TAB]37.9 N[TAB]58.1 E[TAB]array
45[TAB]Ukraine[TAB]AKASG
Malin[TAB]50.4 N[TAB]29.1 E[TAB]array
46[TAB]United States of America[TAB]LJTX
Lajitas, TX[TAB]29.3 N[TAB]103.7 W[TAB]array
47[TAB]United States of America[TAB]MNV
Mina, NV[TAB]38.4 N[TAB]118.2 W[TAB]array
48[TAB]United States of America[TAB]PIWY
Pinedale, WY[TAB]42.8 N[TAB]109.6 W[TAB]array
49[TAB]United States of America[TAB]ELAK
Eielson, AK[TAB]64.8 N[TAB]146.9 W[TAB]array
50[TAB]United States of America[TAB]VNDA
Vanda, Antarctica[TAB]77.5 S[TAB]161.9 E [TAB]3-C
Key: 
3-C &gt; array: indicates that the site could start operations in the International Monitoring System as a three-component station and be upgraded to an array at a later time.
Table 1-B List of Seismological Stations Comprising the Auxiliary Network 
#[TAB]State Responsible for Station[TAB]Location[TAB]Latitude[TAB]Longitude[TAB]Type
1[TAB]Argentina[TAB]CFA
Coronel Fontana[TAB]31.6 S[TAB]68.2 W[TAB]3-C
2[TAB]Argentina[TAB]USHA
Ushuaia[TAB]55.0 S[TAB]68.0 W[TAB]3-C
3[TAB]Armenia[TAB]GNI
Garni[TAB]40.1 N[TAB]44.7 E[TAB]3-C
4[TAB]Australia[TAB]CTA
Charters Towers, QLD[TAB]20.1 S[TAB]146.3 E[TAB]3-C
5[TAB]Australia[TAB]FITZ
Fitzroy Crossing, WA[TAB]18.1 S[TAB]125.6 E[TAB]3-C
6[TAB]Australia[TAB]NWAO
Narrogin, WA[TAB]32.9 S[TAB]117.2 E[TAB]3-C
7[TAB]Bangladesh[TAB]CHT
Chittagong[TAB]22.4 N[TAB]91.8 E[TAB]3-C
8[TAB]Bolivia[TAB]SIV
San Ignacio[TAB]16.0 S[TAB]61.1 W[TAB]3-C
9[TAB]Botswana[TAB]LBTB
Lobatse[TAB]25.0 S[TAB]25.6 E[TAB]3-C
10[TAB]Brazil[TAB]PTGA
Pitinga[TAB]0.7 S[TAB]60.0 W[TAB]3-C
11[TAB]Brazil[TAB]RGNB
Rio Grande do Norte[TAB]6.9 S[TAB]37.0 W[TAB]3-C
12[TAB]Canada[TAB]FRB
Iqaluit, N.W.T.[TAB]63.7 N[TAB]68.5 W[TAB]3-C
13[TAB]Canada[TAB]DLBC
Dease Lake, B.C.[TAB]58.4 N[TAB]130.0 W[TAB]3-C
14[TAB]Canada[TAB]SADO
Sadowa, Ont.[TAB]44.8 N[TAB]79.1 W[TAB]3-C
15[TAB]Canada[TAB]BBB
Bella Bella, B.C.[TAB]52.2 N[TAB]128.1 W[TAB]3-C
16[TAB]Canada[TAB]MBC
Mould Bay, N.W.T.[TAB]76.2 N[TAB]119.4 W[TAB]3-C
17[TAB]Canada[TAB]INK
Inuvik, N.W.T.[TAB]68.3 N[TAB]133.5 W[TAB]3-C
18[TAB]Chile[TAB]RPN
Easter Island[TAB]27.2 S[TAB]109.4 W[TAB]3-C
19[TAB]Chile[TAB]LVC
Limon Verde[TAB]22.6 S[TAB]68.9 W[TAB]3-C
20[TAB]China[TAB]BJT
Baijiatuan[TAB]40.0 N[TAB]116.2 E[TAB]3-C
21[TAB]China[TAB]KMI
Kunming[TAB]25.2 N[TAB]102.8 E[TAB]3-C
22[TAB]China[TAB]SSE
Sheshan[TAB]31.1 N[TAB]121.2 E[TAB]3-C
23[TAB]China[TAB]XAN
Xi'an[TAB]34.0 N[TAB]108.9 E[TAB]3-C
24[TAB]Cook Islands[TAB]RAR
Rarotonga[TAB]21.2 S[TAB]159.8 W[TAB]3-C
25[TAB]Costa Rica[TAB]JTS
Las Juntas de Abangares[TAB]10.3 N[TAB]85.0 W[TAB]3-C
26[TAB]Czech Republic[TAB]VRAC
Vranov[TAB]49.3 N[TAB]16.6 E[TAB]3-C
27[TAB]Denmark[TAB]SFJ
Sondre Stromfjord, Greenland[TAB]67.0 N[TAB]50.6 W[TAB]3-C
28[TAB]Djibouti[TAB]ATD
Arta Tunnel[TAB]11.5 N[TAB]42.9 E[TAB]3-C
29[TAB]Egypt[TAB]KEG
Kottamya[TAB]29.9 N[TAB]31.8 E[TAB]3-C
30[TAB]Ethiopia[TAB]FURI
Furi[TAB]8.9 N[TAB]38.7 E[TAB]3-C
31[TAB]Fiji[TAB]MSVF
Monasavu, Viti Levu[TAB]17.8 S[TAB]178.1 E[TAB]3-C
32[TAB]France[TAB]NOUC
Port Laguerre, New Caledonia[TAB]22.1 S[TAB]166.3 E[TAB]3-C
33[TAB]France[TAB]KOG
Kourou, French Guiana[TAB]5.2 N[TAB]52.7 W[TAB]3-C
34[TAB]Gabon[TAB]BAMB
Bambay[TAB]1.7 S[TAB]13.6 E[TAB]3-C
35[TAB]Germany/South Africa[TAB]--
SANAE Station, Antarctica[TAB]71.7 S[TAB]2.9 W[TAB]3-C
36[TAB]Greece[TAB]IDI
Anogia, Crete[TAB]35.3 N[TAB]24.9 E[TAB]3-C
37[TAB]Guatemala[TAB]RDG
Rabir[TAB]15.0 N[TAB]90.5 W[TAB]3-C
38[TAB]Iceland[TAB]BORG
Borgarnes[TAB]64.8 N[TAB]21.3 W[TAB]3-C
39[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined
40[TAB]Indonesia[TAB]PACI
Cibinong, Jawa Barat[TAB]6.5 S[TAB]107.0 E[TAB]3-C
41[TAB]Indonesia[TAB]JAY
Jayapura, Irian Jaya[TAB]2.5 S[TAB]140.7 E[TAB]3-C
42[TAB]Indonesia[TAB]SWI
Sorong, Irian Jaya[TAB]0.9 S[TAB]131.3 E[TAB]3-C
43[TAB]Indonesia[TAB]PSI
Parapat, Sumatera[TAB]2.7 N[TAB]98.9 E[TAB]3-C
44[TAB]Indonesia[TAB]KAPI
Kappang, Sulawesi Selatan[TAB]5.0 S[TAB]119.8 E[TAB]3-C
45[TAB]Indonesia[TAB]KUG
Kupang, Nusatenggara Timur[TAB]10.2 S[TAB]123.6 E[TAB]3-C
46[TAB]Iran
(Islamic Republic of)[TAB]KRM
Kerman[TAB]30.3 N[TAB]57.1 E[TAB]3-C
47[TAB]Iran
(Islamic Republic of)[TAB]MSN
Masjed-e-Soleyman[TAB]31.9 N[TAB]49.3 E[TAB]3-C
48[TAB]Israel[TAB]MBH
Eilath[TAB]29.8 N[TAB]34.9 E[TAB]3-C
49[TAB]Israel[TAB]PARD
Parod[TAB]32.6 N[TAB]35.3 E[TAB]array
50[TAB]Italy[TAB]ENAS
Enna, Sicily[TAB]37.5 N[TAB]14.3 E[TAB]3-C
51[TAB]Japan[TAB]JNU
Ohita, Kyushu[TAB]33.1 N[TAB]130.9 E[TAB]3-C
52[TAB]Japan[TAB]JOW
Kunigami, Okinawa[TAB]26.8 N[TAB]128.3 E[TAB]3-C
53[TAB]Japan[TAB]JHJ
Hachijojima, Izu Islands[TAB]33.1 N[TAB]139.8 E[TAB]3-C
54[TAB]Japan[TAB]JKA
Kamikawa-asahi, Hokkaido[TAB]44.1 N[TAB]142.6 E[TAB]3-C
55[TAB]Japan[TAB]JCJ
Chichijima, Ogasawara[TAB]27.1 N[TAB]142.2 E[TAB]3-C
56[TAB]Jordan[TAB]--
Ashqof[TAB]32.5 N[TAB]37.6 E[TAB]3-C
57[TAB]Kazakstan[TAB]BRVK
Borovoye[TAB]53.1 N[TAB]70.3 E[TAB]array
58[TAB]Kazakstan[TAB]KURK
Kurchatov[TAB]50.7 N[TAB]78.6 E[TAB]array
59[TAB]Kazakstan[TAB]AKTO
Aktyubinsk[TAB]50.4 N[TAB]58.0 E[TAB]3-C
60[TAB]Kyrgyzstan[TAB]AAK
Ala-Archa[TAB]42.6 N[TAB]74.5 E[TAB]3-C
61[TAB]Madagascar[TAB]TAN
Antananarivo[TAB]18.9 S[TAB]47.6 E[TAB]3-C
62[TAB]Mali[TAB]KOWA
Kowa[TAB]14.5 N[TAB]4.0 W[TAB]3-C
63[TAB]Mexico[TAB]TEYM
Tepich, Yucatan[TAB]20.2 N[TAB]88.3 W[TAB]3-C
64[TAB]Mexico[TAB]TUVM
Tuzandepeti, Veracruz[TAB]18.0 N[TAB]94.4 W[TAB]3-C
65[TAB]Mexico[TAB]LPBM
La Paz, Baja California Sur[TAB]24.2 N[TAB]110.2 W[TAB]3-C
66[TAB]Morocco[TAB]MDT
Midelt[TAB]32.8 N[TAB]4.6 W[TAB]3-C
67[TAB]Namibia[TAB]TSUM
Tsumeb[TAB]19.1 S[TAB]17.4 E[TAB]3-C
68[TAB]Nepal[TAB]EVN
Everest[TAB]28.0 N[TAB]86.8 E[TAB]3-C
69[TAB]New Zealand[TAB]EWZ
Erewhon, South Island[TAB]43.5 S[TAB]170.9 E[TAB]3-C
70[TAB]New Zealand[TAB]RAO
Raoul Island[TAB]29.2 S[TAB]177.9 W[TAB]3-C
71[TAB]New Zealand[TAB]UPZ
Urewera, North Island[TAB]38.3 S[TAB]177.1 E[TAB]3-C
72[TAB]Norway[TAB]SPITS
Spitsbergen[TAB]78.2 N[TAB]16.4 E[TAB]array
73[TAB]Norway[TAB]JMI
Jan Mayen[TAB]70.9 N[TAB]8.7 W[TAB]3-C
74[TAB]Oman[TAB]WSAR
Wadi Sarin[TAB]23.0 N[TAB]58.0 E[TAB]3-C
75[TAB]Papua New Guinea[TAB]PMG
Port Moresby[TAB]9.4 S[TAB]147.2 E[TAB]3-C
76[TAB]Papua New Guinea[TAB]BIAL
Bialla[TAB]5.3 S[TAB]151.1 E[TAB]3-C
77[TAB]Peru[TAB]CAJP
Cajamarca[TAB]7.0 S[TAB]78.0 W[TAB]3-C
78[TAB]Peru[TAB]NNA
Nana[TAB]12.0 S[TAB]76.8 W[TAB]3-C
79[TAB]Philippines[TAB]DAV
Davao, Mindanao[TAB]7.1 N[TAB]125.6 E[TAB]3-C
80[TAB]Philippines[TAB]TGY
Tagaytay, Luzon[TAB]14.1 N[TAB]120.9 E[TAB]3-C
81[TAB]Romania[TAB]MLR
Muntele Rosu[TAB]45.5 N[TAB]25.9 E[TAB]3-C
82[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]KIRV
Kirov [TAB]58.6 N[TAB]49.4 E[TAB]3-C
83[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]KIVO
Kislovodsk[TAB]44.0 N[TAB]42.7 E[TAB]array
84[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]OBN
Obninsk[TAB]55.1 N[TAB]36.6 E[TAB]3-C
85[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]ARU
Arti[TAB]56.4 N[TAB]58.6 E[TAB]3-C
86[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]SEY
Seymchan[TAB]62.9 N[TAB]152.4 E[TAB]3-C
87[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]TLY
Talaya[TAB]51.7 N[TAB]103.6 E[TAB]3-C
88[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]YAK
Yakutsk[TAB]62.0 N[TAB]129.7 E[TAB]3-C
89[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]URG
Urgal[TAB]51.1 N[TAB]132.3 E[TAB]3-C
90[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]BIL
Bilibino[TAB]68.0 N[TAB]166.4 E[TAB]3-C
91[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]TIXI
Tiksi[TAB]71.6 N[TAB]128.9 E[TAB]3-C
92[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]YSS
Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk[TAB]47.0 N[TAB]142.8 E[TAB]3-C
93[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]MA2
Magadan[TAB]59.6 N[TAB]150.8 E[TAB]3-C
94[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]ZIL
Zilim[TAB]53.9 N[TAB]57.0 E[TAB]3-C
95[TAB]Samoa[TAB]AFI
Afiamalu[TAB]13.9 S[TAB]171.8 W[TAB]3-C
96[TAB]Saudi Arabia[TAB]RAYN
Ar Rayn[TAB]23.6 N[TAB]45.6 E[TAB]3-C
97[TAB]Senegal[TAB]MBO
Mbour[TAB]14.4 N[TAB]17.0 W[TAB]3-C
98[TAB]Solomon Islands[TAB]HNR
Honiara, Guadalcanal[TAB]9.4 S[TAB]160.0 E[TAB]3-C
99[TAB]South Africa[TAB]SUR
Sutherland[TAB]32.4 S[TAB]20.8 E[TAB]3-C
100[TAB]Sri Lanka[TAB]COC
Colombo[TAB]6.9 N[TAB]79.9 E[TAB]3-C
101[TAB]Sweden[TAB]HPS
Hagfors[TAB]60.1 N[TAB]13.7 E[TAB]array
102[TAB]Switzerland[TAB]DAVOS
Davos[TAB]46.8 N[TAB]9.8 E[TAB]3-C
103[TAB]Uganda[TAB]MBRU
Mbarara[TAB]0.4 S[TAB]30.4 E[TAB]3-C
104[TAB]United Kingdom[TAB]EKA
Eskdalemuir[TAB]55.3 N[TAB]3.2 W[TAB]array
105[TAB]United States of America[TAB]GUMO
Guam, Marianas Islands[TAB]13.6 N[TAB]144.9 E[TAB]3-C
106[TAB]United States of America[TAB]PMSA
Palmer Station, Antarctica[TAB]64.8 S[TAB]64.1 W[TAB]3-C
107[TAB]United States of America[TAB]TKL
Tuckaleechee Caverns, TN[TAB]35.7 N[TAB]83.8 W[TAB]3-C
108[TAB]United States of America[TAB]PFCA
Pinon Flat, CA[TAB]33.6 N[TAB]116.5 W[TAB]3-C
109[TAB]United States of America[TAB]YBH
Yreka, CA[TAB]41.7 N[TAB]122.7 W[TAB]3-C
110[TAB]United States of America[TAB]KDC
Kodiak Island, AK[TAB]57.8 N[TAB]152.5 W[TAB]3-C
111[TAB]United States of America[TAB]ALQ
Albuquerque, NM[TAB]35.0 N[TAB]106.5 W[TAB]3-C
112[TAB]United States of America[TAB]ATTU
Attu Island, AK[TAB]52.8 N[TAB]172.7 E[TAB]3-C
113[TAB]United States of America[TAB]ELK
Elko, NV[TAB]40.7 N[TAB]115.2 W[TAB]3-C
114[TAB]United States of America[TAB]SPA
South Pole, Antarctica[TAB]90.0 S[TAB]- -[TAB]3-C
115[TAB]United States of America[TAB]NEW
Newport, WA[TAB]48.3 N[TAB]117.1 W[TAB]3-C
116[TAB]United States of America[TAB]SJG
San Juan, PR[TAB]18.1 N[TAB]66.2 W[TAB]3-C
117[TAB]Venezuela[TAB]SDV
Santo Domingo[TAB]8.9 N[TAB]70.6 W[TAB]3-C
118[TAB]Venezuela[TAB]PCRV
Puerto la Cruz[TAB]10.2 N[TAB]64.6 W[TAB]3-C
119[TAB]Zambia[TAB]LSZ
Lusaka[TAB]15.3 S[TAB]28.2 E[TAB]3-C
120[TAB]Zimbabwe[TAB]BUL
Bulawayo[TAB]to be advised[TAB]to be advised[TAB]3-C
Table 2-A List of Radionuclide Stations 
#[TAB]State Responsible for Station[TAB]Location[TAB]Latitude[TAB]Longitude
1[TAB]Argentina[TAB]Buenos Aires[TAB]34.0 S[TAB]58.0 W
2[TAB]Argentina[TAB]Salta[TAB]24.0 S[TAB]65.0 W
3[TAB]Argentina[TAB]Bariloche[TAB]41.1 S[TAB]71.3 W
4[TAB]Australia[TAB]Melbourne, VIC[TAB]37.5 S[TAB]144.6 E
5[TAB]Australia[TAB]Mawson, Antarctica[TAB]67.6 S[TAB]62.5 E
6[TAB]Australia[TAB]Townsville, QLD[TAB]19.2 S[TAB]146.8 E
7[TAB]Australia[TAB]Macquarie Island[TAB]54.0 S[TAB]159.0 E
8[TAB]Australia[TAB]Cocos Islands[TAB]12.0 S[TAB]97.0 E
9[TAB]Australia[TAB]Darwin, NT[TAB]12.4 S[TAB]130.7 E
10[TAB]Australia[TAB]Perth, WA[TAB]31.9 S[TAB]116.0 E
11[TAB]Brazil[TAB]Rio de Janeiro[TAB]22.5 S[TAB]43.1 W
12[TAB]Brazil[TAB]Recife[TAB]8.0 S[TAB]35.0 W
13[TAB]Cameroon[TAB]Douala[TAB]4.2 N[TAB]9.9 E
14[TAB]Canada[TAB]Vancouver, B.C.[TAB]49.3 N[TAB]123.2 W
15[TAB]Canada[TAB]Resolute, N.W.T.[TAB]74.7 N[TAB]94.9 W
16[TAB]Canada[TAB]Yellowknife, N.W.T.[TAB]62.5 N[TAB]114.5 W
17[TAB]Canada[TAB]St. John's, N.L.[TAB]47.0 N[TAB]53.0 W
18[TAB]Chile[TAB]Punta Arenas[TAB]53.1 S[TAB]70.6 W
19[TAB]Chile[TAB]Hanga Roa, Easter Island[TAB]27.1 S[TAB]108.4 W
20[TAB]China[TAB]Beijing[TAB]39.8 N[TAB]116.2 E
21[TAB]China[TAB]Lanzhou[TAB]35.8 N[TAB]103.3 E
22[TAB]China[TAB]Guangzhou[TAB]23.0 N[TAB]113.3 E
23[TAB]Cook Islands[TAB]Rarotonga[TAB]21.2 S[TAB]159.8 W
24[TAB]Ecuador[TAB]Isla San Cristóbal, Galápagos Islands[TAB]1.0 S[TAB]89.2 W
25[TAB]Ethiopia[TAB]Filtu[TAB]5.5 N[TAB]42.7 E
26[TAB]Fiji[TAB]Nadi[TAB]18.0 S[TAB]177.5 E
27[TAB]France[TAB]Papeete, Tahiti[TAB]17.0 S[TAB]150.0 W
28[TAB]France[TAB]Pointe-á-Pitre, Guadeloupe[TAB]17.0 N[TAB]62.0 W
29[TAB]France[TAB]Réunion[TAB]21.1 S [TAB]55.6 E
30[TAB]France[TAB]Port-aux-Francais, Kerguelen[TAB]49.0 S[TAB]70.0 E
31[TAB]France[TAB]Cayenne, French Guiana[TAB]5.0 N[TAB]52.0 W
32[TAB]France[TAB]Dumont d'Urville, Antarctica[TAB]66.0 S[TAB]140.0 E
33[TAB]Germany[TAB]Schauinsland/Freiburg[TAB]47.9 N[TAB]7.9 E
34[TAB]Iceland[TAB]Reykjavik[TAB]64.4 N[TAB]21.9 W
35[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined
36[TAB]Iran (Islamic Republic of)[TAB]Tehran[TAB]35.0 N[TAB]52.0 E
37[TAB]Japan[TAB]Okinawa[TAB]26.5 N[TAB]127.9 E
38[TAB]Japan[TAB]Takasaki, Gunma[TAB]36.3 N[TAB]139.0 E
39[TAB]Kiribati[TAB]Kiritimati[TAB]2.0 N[TAB]157.0 W
40[TAB]Kuwait[TAB]Kuwait City[TAB]29.0 N[TAB]48.0 E
41[TAB]Libya[TAB]Misratah[TAB]32.5 N[TAB]15.0 E
42[TAB]Malaysia[TAB]Kuala Lumpur[TAB]2.6 N[TAB]101.5 E
43[TAB]Mauritania[TAB]Nouakchott[TAB]18.0 N[TAB]17.0 W
44[TAB]Mexico[TAB]Baja California[TAB]28.0 N[TAB]113.0 W
45[TAB]Mongolia[TAB]Ulaanbaatar[TAB]47.5 N[TAB]107.0 E
46[TAB]New Zealand[TAB]Chatham Island[TAB]44.0 S[TAB]176.5 W
47[TAB]New Zealand[TAB]Kaitaia[TAB]35.1 S[TAB]173.3 E
48[TAB]Niger[TAB]Bilma[TAB]18.0 N[TAB]13.0 E
49[TAB]Norway[TAB]Spitsbergen[TAB]78.2 N[TAB]16.4 E
50[TAB]Panama[TAB]Panama City[TAB]8.9 N[TAB]79.6 W
51[TAB]Papua New Guinea[TAB]New Hanover[TAB]3.0 S[TAB]150.0 E
52[TAB]Philippines[TAB]Quezon City[TAB]14.5 N[TAB]121.0 E
53[TAB]Portugal[TAB]Ponta Delgada, São Miguel, Azores[TAB]37.4 N[TAB]25.4 W
54[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]Kirvov[TAB]58.6 N[TAB]49.4 E
55[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]Norilsk[TAB]69.0 N[TAB]88.0 E
56[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]Peleduy[TAB]59.6 N[TAB]112.6 E
57[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]Bilibino[TAB]68.0 N[TAB]166.4 E
58[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]Ussuriysk[TAB]43.7 N[TAB]131.9 E
59[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]Zalesovo[TAB]53.9 N[TAB]84.8 E
60[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]Petropavlovsk-Kamchatskiy[TAB]53.1 N[TAB]158.8 E
61[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]Dubna[TAB]56.7 N[TAB]37.3 E
62[TAB]South Africa[TAB]Marion Island[TAB]46.5 S[TAB]37.0 E
63[TAB]Sweden[TAB]Stockholm[TAB]59.4 N[TAB]18.0 E
64[TAB]Tanzania[TAB]Dar es Salaam[TAB]6.0 S[TAB]39.0 E
65[TAB]Thailand[TAB]Bangkok[TAB]13.8 N[TAB]100.5 E
66[TAB]United Kingdom[TAB]BIOT/Chagos Archipelago[TAB]7.0 S[TAB]72.0 E
67[TAB]United Kingdom[TAB]St. Helena[TAB]16.0 S[TAB]6.0 W
68[TAB]United Kingdom[TAB]Tristan da Cunha[TAB]37.0 S[TAB]12.3 W
69[TAB]United Kingdom[TAB]Halley, Antarctica[TAB]76.0 S[TAB]28.0 W
70[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Sacramento, CA[TAB]38.7 N[TAB]121.4 W
71[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Sand Point, AK[TAB]55.0 N[TAB]160.0 W
72[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Melbourne, FL[TAB]28.3 N[TAB]80.6 W
73[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Palmer Station, Antarctica[TAB]64.5 S[TAB]64.0 W
74[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Ashland, KS[TAB]37.2 N[TAB]99.8 W
75[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Charlottesville, VA[TAB]38.0 N[TAB]78.0 W
76[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Salchaket, AK[TAB]64.4 N[TAB]147.1 W
77[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Wake Island[TAB]19.3 N[TAB]166.6 E
78[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Midway Islands[TAB]28.0 N[TAB]177.0 W
79[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Oahu, HI[TAB]21.5 N[TAB]158.0 W
80[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Upi, Guam[TAB]13.7 N[TAB]144.9 E
Table 2-B List of Radionuclide Laboratories 
#[TAB]State Responsible for Laboratory[TAB]Name and place of laboratory
1[TAB]Argentina[TAB]National Board of Nuclear Regulation
Buenos Aires
2[TAB]Australia[TAB]Australian Radiation Laboratory
Melbourne, VIC
3[TAB]Austria[TAB]Austrian Research Center
Seibersdorf
4[TAB]Brazil[TAB]Institute of Radiation Protection and Dosimetry
Rio de Janeiro
5[TAB]Canada[TAB]Health Canada
Ottawa, Ont.
6[TAB]China[TAB]
Beijing
7[TAB]Finland[TAB]Centre for Radiation and Nuclear Safety
Helsinki
8[TAB]France[TAB]Atomic Energy Commission
Montlhéry
9[TAB]Israel[TAB]Soreq Nuclear Research Centre
Yavne
10[TAB]Italy[TAB]Labortory of the National Agency for the Protection of the Enivironment
Rome
11[TAB]Japan[TAB]Japan Atomic Energy Research Institute
Tokai, Ibaraki
12[TAB]New Zealand[TAB]National Radiation Laboratory
Christchurch
13[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]Central Radiation Control Laboratory, Ministry of Defense Special Verification Service
Moscow
14[TAB]South Africa[TAB]Atomic Energy Corporation
Pelindaba
15[TAB]United Kingdom[TAB]AWE Blacknest
Chilton
16[TAB]United States of America[TAB]McClellan Central Laboratories
Sacramento, CA
Table 3 List of Hydroacoustic Stations 
#[TAB]State Responsible for Station[TAB]Location[TAB]Latitude[TAB]Longitude[TAB]Type
1[TAB]Australia[TAB]Cape Leeuwin, WA[TAB]34.4 S[TAB]115.1 E[TAB]Hydrophone
2[TAB]Canada[TAB]Queen Charlotte Islands, B.C.[TAB]53.3 N[TAB]132.5 W[TAB]T-phase
3[TAB]Chile[TAB]Juan Fernández Island[TAB]33.7 S[TAB]78.8 W[TAB]Hydrophone
4[TAB]France[TAB]Crozet Islands[TAB]46.5 S[TAB]52.2 E[TAB]Hydrophone
5[TAB]France[TAB]Guadeloupe[TAB]16.3 N[TAB]61.1 W[TAB]T-phase
6[TAB]Mexico[TAB]Clarión Island[TAB]18.2 N[TAB]114.6 W[TAB]T-phase
7[TAB]Portugal[TAB]Flores[TAB]39.3 N[TAB]31.3 W[TAB]T-phase
8[TAB]United Kingdom[TAB]BIOT/Chagos Archipelago[TAB]7.3 S[TAB]72.4 E[TAB]Hydrophone
9[TAB]United Kingdom[TAB]Tristan da Cunha[TAB]37.2 S[TAB]12.5 W[TAB]T-phase
10[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Ascension[TAB]8.0 S[TAB]14.4 W[TAB]Hydrophone
11[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Wake Island[TAB]19.3 N[TAB]166.6 E[TAB]Hydrophone
Table 4 List of Infrasound Stations 
#[TAB]State Responsible for Station[TAB]Location[TAB]Latitude[TAB]Longitude
1[TAB]Argentina[TAB]Paso Flores[TAB]40.7 S [TAB]70.6 W
2[TAB]Argentina[TAB]Ushuaia[TAB]55.0 S [TAB]68.0 W
3[TAB]Australia[TAB]Davis Base, Antarctica[TAB]68.4 S [TAB]77.6 E
4[TAB]Australia[TAB]Narrogin, WA[TAB]32.9 S [TAB]117.2 E
5[TAB]Australia[TAB]Hobart, TAS[TAB]42.1 S [TAB]147.2 E
6[TAB]Australia[TAB]Cocos Islands[TAB]12.3 S [TAB]97.0 E
7[TAB]Australia[TAB]Warramunga, NT[TAB]19.9 S [TAB]134.3 E
8[TAB]Bolivia[TAB]La Paz[TAB]16.3 S [TAB]68.1 W
9[TAB]Brazil[TAB]Brasilia[TAB]15.6 S [TAB]48.0 W
10[TAB]Canada[TAB]Lac du Bonnet, Man.[TAB]50.2 N [TAB]95.9 W
11[TAB]Cape Verde[TAB]Cape Verde Islands[TAB]16.0 N [TAB]24.0 W
12[TAB]Central African Republic[TAB]Bangui[TAB]5.2 N [TAB]18.4 E
13[TAB]Chile[TAB]Easter Island[TAB]27.0 S [TAB]109.2 W
14[TAB]Chile[TAB]Juan Fernández Island[TAB]33.8 S [TAB]80.7 W
15[TAB]China[TAB]Beijing[TAB]40.0 N [TAB]116.0 E
16[TAB]China[TAB]Kunming[TAB]25.0 N [TAB]102.8 E
17[TAB]Côte d'Ivoire[TAB]Dimbokro[TAB]6.7 N [TAB]4.9 W
18[TAB]Denmark[TAB]Dundas, Greenland[TAB]76.5 N [TAB]68.7 W
19[TAB]Djibouti[TAB]Djibouti[TAB]11.3 N [TAB]43.5 E
20[TAB]Ecuador[TAB]Galápagos Islands[TAB]0.0 N [TAB]91.7 W
21[TAB]France[TAB]Marquesas Islands[TAB]10.0 N [TAB]140.0 W
22[TAB]France[TAB]Port LaGuerre, New Caledonia[TAB]22.1 S [TAB]166.3 E
23[TAB]France[TAB]Kerguelen[TAB]49.2 S [TAB]69.1 E
24[TAB]France[TAB]Tahiti[TAB]17.6 S [TAB]149.6 W
25[TAB]France[TAB]Kourou, French Guiana[TAB]5.2 N [TAB]52.7 W
26[TAB]Germany[TAB]Freyung[TAB]48.9 N [TAB]13.7 E
27[TAB]Germany[TAB]Georg von Neumayer, Antarctica[TAB]70.6 S [TAB]8.4 W
28[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined[TAB]To be determined [TAB]To be determined
29[TAB]Iran (Islamic Republic of)[TAB]Tehran[TAB]35.7 N [TAB]51.4 E
30[TAB]Japan[TAB]Tsukuba[TAB]36.0 N [TAB]140.1 E
31[TAB]Kazakstan[TAB]Aktyubinsk[TAB]50.4 N [TAB]58.0 E
32[TAB]Kenya[TAB]Kilmanbogo[TAB]1.3 S [TAB]36.8 E
33[TAB]Madagascar[TAB]Antananarivo[TAB]18.8 S [TAB]47.5 E
34[TAB]Mongolia[TAB]Javhlant[TAB]48.0 N [TAB]106.8 E
35[TAB]Namibia[TAB]Tsumeb[TAB]19.1 S [TAB]17.4 E
36[TAB]New Zealand[TAB]Chatham Island[TAB]44.0 S [TAB]176.5 W
37[TAB]Norway[TAB]Karasjok[TAB]69.5 N [TAB]25.5 E
38[TAB]Pakistan[TAB]Rahimyar Khan[TAB]28.2 N [TAB]70.3 E
39[TAB]Palau[TAB]Palau[TAB]7.5 N [TAB]134.5 E
40[TAB]Papua New Guinea[TAB]Rabaul[TAB]4.1 S [TAB]152.1 E
41[TAB]Paraguay[TAB]Villa Florida[TAB]26.3 S [TAB]57.3 W
42[TAB]Portugal[TAB]Azores[TAB]37.8 N [TAB]25.5 W
43[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]Dubna[TAB]56.7 N [TAB]37.3 E
44[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]Petropavlovsk-Kamchatskiy[TAB]53.1 N [TAB]158.8 E
45[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]Ussuriysk[TAB]43.7 N [TAB]131.9 E
46[TAB]Russian Federation[TAB]Zalesovo[TAB]53.9 N [TAB]84.8 E
47[TAB]South Africa[TAB]Boshof[TAB]28.6 S [TAB]25.4 E
48[TAB]Tunisia[TAB]Thala[TAB]35.6 N [TAB]8.7 E
49[TAB]United Kingdom[TAB]Tristan da Cunha[TAB]37.0 S [TAB]12.3 W
50[TAB]United Kingdom[TAB]Ascension[TAB]8.0 S [TAB]14.3 W
51[TAB]United Kingdom[TAB]Bermuda[TAB]32.0 N [TAB]64.5 W
52[TAB]United Kingdom[TAB]BIOT/Chagos Archipelago[TAB]5.0 S [TAB]72.0 E
53[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Eielson, AK [TAB]64.8 N [TAB]146.9 W
54[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Siple Station, Antarctica[TAB]75.5 S [TAB]83.6 W
55[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Windless Bight, Antarctica[TAB]77.5 S [TAB]161.8 E
56[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Newport, WA[TAB]48.3 N [TAB]117.1 W
57[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Piñon Flat, CA[TAB]33.6 N [TAB]116.5 W
58[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Midway Islands[TAB]28.1 N [TAB]177.2 W
59[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Hawaii, HI[TAB]19.6 N [TAB]155.3 W
60[TAB]United States of America[TAB]Wake Island[TAB]19.3 N [TAB]166.6 W
ANNEX 2 TO THE PROTOCOL
1. The International Data Centre standard event screening criteria shall be based on the standard event characterization parameters determined during the combined processing of data from all the monitoring technologies in the International Monitoring System. Standard event screening shall make use of both global and supplementary screening criteria to take account of regional variations where applicable. 
2. For events detected by the International Monitoring System seismic component, the following parameters, inter alia, may be used: 
- location of the event;
- depth of the event;
- ratio of the magnitude of surface waves to body waves; 
- signal frequency content;
- spectral ratios of phases;
- spectral scalloping;
- first motion of the P-wave;
- focal mechanism;
- relative excitation of seismic phases;
- comparative measures to other events and groups of events; and 
- regional discriminants where applicable.
3. For events detected by the International Monitoring System hydroacoustic component, the following parameters, inter alia, may be used: 
- signal frequency content including corner frequency, wide-band energy and mean centre frequency and bandwidth;
- frequency-dependent duration of signals;
- spectral ratio; and
- indications of bubble-pulse signals and bubble-pulse delay.
4. For events detected by the International Monitoring System infrasound component, the following parameters, inter alia, may be used: 
- signal frequency content and dispersion;
- signal duration; and 
- peak amplitude.
5. For events detected by the International Monitoring System radionuclide component, the following parameters, inter alia, may be used: 
- concentration of background natural and man-made radionuclides;
- concentration of specific fission and activation products outside normal observations; and 
- ratios of one specific fission and activation product to another. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

