
 Amendments To The Convention On Conservation Of Nature In The South Pacific   
     Filename: 2000-Amendments-1976-NatureSouthPacific.EN.txt 
 Source: Unofficial     
    ﻿Amendments to the Convention on Conservation of Nature in the South Pacific of 12 June 1976
Source: Unofficial Text
Adopted at the fifth meeting of the Contracting Parties.
Following are amendments to original text:
In Article VII, paragraph 1, and Article VIII, paragraph 2, replace "South Pacific Commission" with "South Pacific Regional Environment Programme".
Replace text of Article IX with following new text:
"No provision in this Convention should preclude a Party at the time of deposit of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession from making a declaration consistent with the objectives of this Convention and the principles of international law."
Renumber existing Article X as Article XI and insert new Article X as follows:
"Article X
1. Amendments to this Convention may be proposed by any Contracting Party. The text of any proposed amendment to this Convention shall be communicated to the Contracting Parties by the body charged with the continuing bureau duties under the Convention at least 90 days before the meeting at which it is proposed for adoption.
2. The amendments shall be adopted by a three-fourths majority vote of the Contracting Parties present and voting at the meeting and shall be submitted by the Depositary to all Contracting Parties for ratification, acceptance or approval.
3. Ratification, acceptance or approval of amendments shall be notified to the Depositary in writing. Amendments adopted in accordance with paragraph 2 above, shall enter into force between Contracting Parties having accepted them on the thirtieth day after the deposit of instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval by at least three-fourths of the Contracting Parties to this Convention. Thereafter the amendments shall enter into force for any other Contracting Party on the thirtieth day after that Party deposits its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of the amendments."
Renumber Articles XI to XV as Articles XII to XVI.
In Article XII (renumbered from Article XI), for "Western Samoa" read "Samoa".
In Article XIII (renumbered from Article XII), replace "the States referred to in Article X" with "States members of the South Pacific Regional Environment Programme". 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

