
 Optional Annex V To The Protocol To The International Convention For The Prevention Of Pollution From Ships On Prevention Of Pollution By Garbage From Ships   
     Filename: 1973-PollutionFromShipsAnnexV.EN.txt 
 Source:     
    ﻿Annex V To The International Convention For The Prevention Of Pollution From Ships On Prevention Of Pollution By Garbage From Ships
Source:
Regulation 1
Definitions For the purposes of this Annex:
(1) "Garbage" means all kinds of victual, domestic and operational waste excluding fresh fish and parts thereof, generated during the normal operation of the ship and liable to be disposed of continuously or periodically except those substances which are defined or listed in other Annexes to the present Convention.
(2) "Nearest land". The term "from the nearest land" means from the baseline from which the territorial sea of the territory in question is established in accordance with international law except that, for the purposes of the present Convention "from the nearest land" off the north eastern coast of Australia shall mean from a line drawn from a point on the coast of Australia in latitude 11°00' South, longitude 142°08' East to a point in latitude 10° 35' South, longitude 141°55' East, thence to a point latitude 10°00' South, longitude 142°00' East, thence to a point latitude 9°10' South, longitude 143°52' East, thence to a point latitude 9°00' South, longitude 144°30' East, thence to a point latitude 13°00' South, longitude 144°00' East, thence to a point latitude 15°00' South, longitude 146°00' East, thence to a point latitude 18°00' South, longitude 147°00' East, thence to a point latitude 21°00' South, longitude 153°00' East, thence to a point on the coast of Australia in latitude 24°42' South, longitude 153° 15' East.
(3) "Special area" means a sea area where for recognized technical reasons in relation to its oceanographical and ecological condition and to the particular character of its traffic the adoption of special mandatory methods for the prevention of sea pollution by garbage is required. Special areas shall include those listed in Regulation 5 of this Annex.
Regulation 2
Application
The provisions of this Annex shall apply to all ships.
Regulation 3
Disposal of Garbage outside Special Areas
(1) Subject to the provisions of Regulations 4, 5 and 6 of this Annex:
(a) the disposal into the sea of all plastics, including but not limited to synthetic ropes, synthetic fishing nets and plastic garbage bags is prohibited;
(b) the disposal into the sea of the following garbage shall be made as far as practicable from the nearest land but in any case is prohibited if the distance from the nearest land is less than:
(i) 25 nautical miles for dunnage, lining and packing materials which will float;
(ii) 12 nautical miles for food wastes and all other garbage including paper products, rags, glass, metal, bottles, crockery and similar refuse;
(c) disposal into the sea of garbage specified in sub-paragraph (b)(ii) of this Regulation may be permitted when it has passed through a comminuter or grinder and made as far as practicable from the nearest land but in any case is prohibited if the distance from the nearest land is less than 3 nautical miles. Such comminuted or ground garbage shall be capable of passing through a screen with openings no greater than 25 milli-metres.
(2) When the garbage is mixed with other discharges having different disposal or discharge requirements the more stringent requirements shall apply.
Regulation 4
Special Requirements for Disposal of Garbage
(1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) of this Regulation, the disposal of any materials regulated by this Annex is prohibited from fixed or floating platforms engaged in the exploration, exploitation and associated offshore processing of sea-bed mineral resources, and from all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms.
(2) The disposal into the sea of food wastes may be permitted when they have been passed through a comminuter or grinder from such fixed or floating platforms located more than 12 nautical miles from land and all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms. Such comminuted or ground food wastes shall be capable of passing through a screen with openings no greater than 25 millimetres.
Regulation 5
Disposal of Garbage within Special Areas
(1) For the purposes of this Annex the special areas are the Mediterranean Sea area, the Baltic Sea area, the Black Sea area, the Red Sea area and the "Gulfs area" which are defined as follows:
(a) The Mediterranean Sea area means the Mediterranean Sea proper including the gulfs and seas therein with the boundary between the Mediterranean and the Black Sea constituted by the 41°N parallel and bounded to the west by the Straits of Gibraltar at the meridian of 5°36'W.
(b) The Baltic Sea area means the Baltic Sea proper with the Gulf of Bothnia and the Gulf of Finland and the entrance to the Baltic Sea bounded by the parallel of the Skaw in the Skagerrak at 57°44.8'N.
(c) The Black Sea area means the Black Sea proper with the boundary between the Mediterranean and the Black Sea constituted by the parallel 41° N.
(d) The Red Sea area means the Red Sea proper including the Gulfs of Suez and Aqaba bounded at the south by the rhumb line between Ras si Ane (12°8.5'N, 43°19.6'E) and Husn Murad (12°40.4'N, 43°30.2'E).
(e) The "Gulfs area" means the sea area located north west of the rhumb line between Ras al Hadd (22°30'N, 59°48'E) and Ras al Fasteh (25°04'N, 61°25'E).
(2) Subject to the provisions of Regulation 6 of this Annex:
(a) disposal into the sea of the following is prohibited:
(i) all plastics, including but not limited to synthetic ropes, synthetic fishing nets and plastic garbage bags; and
(ii) all other garbage, including paper products, rags, glass, metal, bottles, crockery, dunnage, lining and packing materials;
(b) disposal into the sea of food wastes shall be made as far as practicable from land, but in any case not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
(3) When the garbage is mixed with other discharges having different disposal or discharge requirements the more stringent requirements shall apply.
(4) Reception facilities within special areas:
(a) The Government of each Party to the Convention, the coastline of which borders a special area undertakes to ensure that as soon as possible in all ports within a special area, adequate reception facilities are provided in accordance with Regulation 7 of this Annex, taking into account the special needs of ships operating in these areas.
(b) The Government of each Party concerned shall notify the Organization of the measures taken pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this Regulation. Upon receipt of sufficient notifications the Organization shall establish a date from which the requirements of this Regulation in respect of the area in question shall take effect. The Organization shall notify all Parties of the date so established no less than twelve months in advance of that date.
(c) After the date so established, ships calling also at ports in these special areas where such facilities are not yet available, shall fully comply with the requirements of this Regulation.
Regulation 6 Exceptions
Regulations 3, 4 and 5 of this Annex shall not apply to:
(a) the disposal of garbage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on board or saving life at sea; or
(b) the escape of garbage resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment provided all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of the damage, for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the escape; or
(c) the accidental loss of synthetic fishing nets or synthetic material incidental to the repair of such nets, provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken to prevent such loss.
Regulation 7 Reception Facilities
(1) The Government of each Party to the Convention undertakes to ensure the provision of facilities at ports and terminals for the reception of garbage, without causing undue delay to ships, and according to the needs of the ships using them.
(2) The Government of each Party shall notify the Organization for transmission to the Parties concerned of all cases where the facilities provided under this Regulation are alleged to be inadequate. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

