
 Supplementary Arrangements For The Regulation Of Antarctic Pelagic Whaling   
     Filename: 1962-SupplementaryArrangements-1962-ArrangementsAntarcticPelagicWhaling.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.intfish.net/treaties/antarctic_whaling2.htm     
    ﻿Supplementary Arrangements for the Regulation of Antarctic Pelagic Whaling
Source: http://www.intfish.net/treaties/antarctic_whaling2.htm, downloaded 20060515
The Governments of Japan, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, having agreed upon the Arrangements for the Regulation of Antarctic Pelagic Whaling signed at London on this day's date (hereinafter referred to as "the Main Arrangements");
Have agreed upon the following Supplementary Arrangements:
Article 1
For the purposes of the present Supplementary Arrangements:
(a) the term "blue whale unit" shall have the meaning given to it in paragraphs 8 and 18 of the Schedule to the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling, 1946 (hereinafter referred to as "the Convention");
(b) the term "season" shall mean the season during which the taking of baleen whales is permitted under paragraph 7(a) of the Schedule to the Convention;
(c) the term "due date" shall mean in relation to any season the date on which 80% of the season shall have elapsed.
Article 2
The present Supplementary Arrangements shall be operative during the period of operation of the Main Arrangements and shall be terminated by the termination of the Main Arrangements.
Article 3
(1) An additional number of blue whale units shall be allowed to the Kingdom of the Netherlands in accordance with the following provisions:
If by the due date in any season the Kingdom of the Netherlands shall have caught
(a) not less than 75% of their quota under the Main Arrangements but less than 80%, the number of additional blue whale units for that season shall be 45;
(b) not less than 80% but less than 85% of their quota, the number of additional blue whale units for that season shall be 60;
(c) not less than 85% of their quotas, the additional units for that season shall be 70.
(2) The number of additional units, if any, to be allowed to the Kingdom of the Netherlands in respect of each season shall be determined by the Bureau of International Whaling Statistics, and the Bureau shall inform the Contracting Governments of their determination. The Contracting Governments shall furnish the Bureau with such information as the Bureau may require, additional to that required to be provided pursuant to Article VII of the Conventions, for the purposes of these provisions.
(3) Any additional units allowed to the Kingdom of the Netherlands under the present Supplementary Arrangements shall not be transferable to any other country.
Article 4
The Governments of Japan, the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland shall reduce the catches made by their countries within their permitted quotas under the Main Arrangements by the number of blue whale units allowed to the Kingdom of the Netherlands under Article 3 of the present Supplementary Arrangements. The number of blue whale units to be contributed to the Kingdom of the Netherlands by each of the three Governments mentioned above shall be determined by agreements between the three Governments.
Article 5
The present Supplementary Arrangements shall enter into force on the date on which all the Governments shall have notified their acceptance to the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present Supplementary Arrangements.
DONE at London the sixth day of June, 1962 in the English language in a single copy which shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The Government of the United Kingdom shall transmit certified copies thereof to all other signatory Governments. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

