
 Arrangements For The Regulation Of Antarctic Pelagic Whaling   
     Filename: 1962-ArrangementsAntarcticPelagicWhaling.EN.txt 
 Source: https://treaties.un.org/doc/Publication/UNTS/Volume%20486/v486.pdf     
    ﻿Arrangements for the Regulation of Antarctic Pelagic Whaling
Source: https://treaties.un.org/doc/Publication/UNTS/Volume%20486/v486.pdf, downloaded 20060515
The Governments of Japan, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Norway, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, being parties to the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling, signed at Washington on December 2, 1946 (hereinafter referred to as "the Convention");
Have agreed upon the following Arrangements:
Article 1
For the purposes of the present Arrangements the term "season" shall mean the season during which the taking of baleen whales is permitted under paragraph 7(a) of the Schedule to the Convention.
Article 2
The present Arrangements shall be operative until the end of the 1965-1966 season.
Article 3
The total annual catch authorised under the Convention shall be divided among the countries of the Contracting Governments in the following quotas:
Japan[TAB]33%
Netherlands[TAB]6%
Norway[TAB]32%
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics[TAB]20%
United Kingdom[TAB]9%
These quotas are not transferable except as provided in Article 5 hereof and in Articles 3 and 4 of the Supplementary Arrangements signed at London on this day's date.
Article 4
None of the Contracting Governments shall permit any increase in the number of factory ships under its jurisdiction in the Antarctic operating in the Antarctic except by purchase from the country of another Contracting Government of factory ships engaged at the time of purchase in Antarctic pelagic whaling, save that the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics may permit one additional factory ship to be added to the fleet operating during the 1960-61 whaling season.
Article 5
(1) None of the factory ships under the jurisdiction of any of the Contracting Governments shall be transferred to the jurisdiction of another Government which is a party to the Convention, unless a part of the quota of the transferor Government is allocated to the transferee Government and the latter agrees to accept the obligations of the present Arrangements, or unless the transferee country gives a satisfactory guarantee that the factory ship will not be used as such in Antarctic pelagic whaling during the period of the present Arrangements.
(2) The part of the quota of the transferor country to be allocated shall be settled between the two Governments concerned, provided that no such allocation shall result in any country with only one factory ship having a quota exceeding 6% of the total annual catch authorised under the Convention. The part of the quota allocated shall be notified by the two Governments concerned to the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which shall notify the other signatory Governments.
Article 6
If a factory ship under the jurisdiction of a Government which is not a party to the present Arrangements should engage in Antarctic pelagic whaling other than as a result of a transfer as provided under Article 5 above, and that Government is or becomes a Party to the Convention, the present Arrangements shall be terminated.
Article 7
The present Arrangements shall enter into force on the date on which all the signatory Governments shall have notified their acceptance to the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present Arrangements.
DONE at London the sixth day of June, 1962 in the English language in a single copy which shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The Government of the United Kingdom shall transmit certified copies thereof to all other signatory Governments. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

