
 Agreement On Cooperation In The Field Of Building, Sustainable Housing And Spatial Planning   
     Filename: 1997-BuildingSustainableHousingSpatialPlanning.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.am.lt/sutartys/Tarptautines%20sutartys/Tarpzinybines%20sutartys/Daugi…     
    ﻿Agreement between the Ministry of Construction and Urban Development of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Environment of the Republic of Estonia And the Ministry of environmental protection and regional Development of the Republic of Latvia On cooperation in the field of building, sustainable housing And spatial planning
Source: http://www.am.lt/sutartys/Tarptautines%20sutartys/Tarpzinybines%20sutart..., downloaded 20120526
The Ministry of Construction and Urban Development of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Environment of the Republic of Estonia And the Ministry of environmental protection and regional Development of the Republic of Latvia, each separately called a "Party" and altogether called the "Parties",
Having discussed the matters of co-operation between the three Ministries of the Baltic States in the field of building, sustainable housing and spatial planning with special emphasis in regards of the problems related to European integration and approximation of the relevant legal basis of the three Baltic Statcs in the above mentioned fields,
Therefore have agreed as follows:
Article 1
The first priority objectives of the cooperation shall be:
(a) implementing measures of sustainable housing in regards of all kinds housing stock;
(b) approximation and harmonization with European Standards of the legal basis of the three Baltic Republics in the sphere of building, including the conformity assessment;
as well as:
(c) modernization of the existing housing stock, in particular the prefabricated panel houses, and enhancing its energy efficiency;
(d) promotion of the research in the building, housing and spatia1 planning spheres, exchange of the relevant information and transfer of methodology and know-how;
(c) creation of funding systems aimed at renovation of existing housing stock;
(f) exchange of information in the field of regional and municipal land-use and planning;
(g) creation of joint international projects of territorial planning of the border areas.
Article 2
The cooperation of the Parties shall be implemented in the following forms:
(a) preparation and implementation of the joint project in the matters in the Article 1;
(b) organization of joint studies, visits, workshops and seminars for professionals;
(c) exchange of experts;
(d) exchange of technical information and documentation on a subject matter;
(e) other mutually beneficial forms of co-operation.
Article 3
For co-ordination of the co-operation efforts the Parties to this Agreement agree to establish a Permanent Coordinatory Council including two representatives from each Party. Representatives of the Parties preside at the meetings of the Coordinatory Council in turn.
The Coordinatory Council will apply its best efforts in respect of:
(a) determination and defining of the issues of immediate and long-term co-operation between the Parties;
(b) seeking most favourable conditions for strengthening and development of the mutual co-operation;
(c) removing the possible obstacles that are on a way of implementation of this Agreement;
(d) enhancement of joint research in the field of sustainable housing.
Article 4
The Coordinatory Council can establish a permanent and/or provisional working groups of experts for mutual consideration of specific issues.
Each Party shall appoint a contact person for dealing with day-to-day issues of the co-operation between the Parties.
The venue of the meetings of the Coordinatory Council shall be rotated between Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia.
The hosting Party of the meeting of the Coordinatory Council or of the working group shall provide accommodation and local transportation for participants from other Parties.
Article 5
Principal issues of implementation of this Agreement and development of co-operation between the Parties shall be discussed at meetings of the Ministers.
A meeting of the Ministers shall be called upon proposal of any Party or of the Coordinatory Council.
Article 6
This Agreement becomes valid and enters into full force on a day of its execution by the Parties.
Term of this Agreement is indefinite but any Party can apply to the other Parties for cancellation of this Agreement by notifying other Parties at least three (3) months in advance.
Cancellation of this Agreement does not imply implementation of any decisions approved under any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Article 7
This Agreement sets forth the entire understanding of the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and may be modified only in writing signed by all the Parties hereto.
This Agreement' executed in English, Lithuanian, Estonian and Latvian languages in several counterparts, each of which is an original and all of which together constitute one and the same Agreement.
In case of any dispute between the Parties about interpretation on any provision of this Agreement the original in English language will be prevailing.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto each acting through its duly authorized representative, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective name.
Done in Vilnius, on 21 November 1997
For the Ministry of Construction and Urban Development of the Republic of Lithuania
For the Ministry of Environment of the Republic of Estonia
For the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development of the Republic of Latvia 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

