
 Agreement relating to the International Convention for Regulating the Police of the North Seas Fishery   
     Filename: 1955-NorthSeasFisheryPolice.EN.txt 
 Source: https://iea.uoregon.edu/MarineMammals/engine/Documents/2-0475-0476.html     
    ﻿Agreement Between The Federal Republic Of Germany, Belgium, Denmark, France, The Netherlands And The United Kingdom Of Great Britain And Northern Ireland Relating To The International Convention For Regulating The Police Of The North Sea Fisheries Signed At The Hague On 6 May 1882
Source: https://iea.uoregon.edu/MarineMammals/engine/Documents/2-0475-0476.html
The Governments signatory to the present Agreement;
In order that effect may be given in respect of the Federal Republic of Germany to the International Convention for regulating the police of North Sea fisheries signed at The Hague on May 6, 1882;
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
1. The supervision of fisheries pursuant to the International Convention for regulating the police of the North Sea fisheries signed at The Hague on May 6, 1882 shall be exercised by ships belonging to the naval forces of the signatory Governments.
2. If the necessity should arise, these ships may be replaced by other state-owned ships commanded by an officer specially appointed for the purpose by the Government concerned and able to produce his commission on demand.
Article 2
The present Agreement shall be ratified and the instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which shall notify all signatory Governments of each such deposit.
Article 3
The present Agreement shall come into force on the deposit of the sixth instrument of ratification. The Agreement shall, however, be provisionally applied as from the date of its signature, so far as it is possible to do so under the constitutional systems of the signatory Governments.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, having been duly authorised thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present Agreement.
DONE at The Hague, 3 June 1955, in the English and French languages, both texts being equally authentic, in a single original, which shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the Netherlands, which shall transmit certified copies thereof to each signatory Government.
For the Federal Republic of Germany: (Signed) H. MÜHLENFELD For Belgium: (Signed) L. COUVREUR For Denmark: (Signed) Wilhelm EICKHOFF For France: (Signed) J. P. GARNIER For the Netherlands: (Signed) J. W. BEYEN (Signed) J. LUNS For the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: (Signed) Paul MASON 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

