
 Protocol to the International Convention for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Regarding Payments under the Annual Administrative Budget   
     Filename: 1975-Protocol-1949-NorthwestAtlanticFisheries.EN.txt 
 Source: Great Britain Parliament. Papers, 1976, Cmnd. 6604.     
    ﻿Protocol To The International Convention For The Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Relating To Payments
Source: Great Britain Parliament. Papers, 1976, Cmnd. 6604.
The Governments parties to the International Convention for the Northwest, Atlantic Fisheries signed at Washington under date of February 8, 1949, which Convention, as amended, is hereinafter referred to as the Convention, agree as follows :
ARTICLE I
Paragraph 3 of Article. XI of the Convention is amended to read as follows:
"3. The Commission shall calculate the payments due from each Contracting Government under the annual administrative budget according to the following formula :
(a) 15 percent of the administrative budget shall be deducted and the amount divided equally among the Contracting Governments;
(b) the remainder shall be divided into such number of equal shares as corresponds to the total number of Panel memberships;
(c) the payment due from any Contracting Government shall be. its share of the 15 percent deduction plus the number of shares equal to the number of Panels in which that Government participates."
ARTICLE II
1. This Protocol shall take effect for all Contracting Governments one hundred and twenty days following the date on the notification by the Government of the United States of America, the Depositary Government, of receipt, of written notification of approval by three-fourths of all Contracting Governments unless any other Contracting Government, notifies the Depositary Government that it objects to the Protocol, within ninety days of the date on the notification by the Depositary Government of such receipt, in which case the Protocol shall not take effect for any Contracting Government.
2. Any Contracting Government which has objected to this Protocol may at any time withdraw that objection. If all objections are with-drawn, this Protocol shall take effect for all Contracting Governments one hundred and twenty days following the' date on the notification by the Depositary Government of receipt of the last withdrawal.
3. Any Government becoming a party to the Convention after June 16, 1973 shall be deemed to have approved this Protocol,
ARTICLE III
1. The Depositary Government shall promptly notify all Contracting Governments of receipt of notifications of approval of the present Protocol, the receipt of notifications of objection or withdrawal of objections, and the entry into force of this Protocol.
2. The original of this Protocol shall be deposited with the Depositary Government, which Government shall communicate certified copies thereof to all the Governments signatory or adhering to the Convention.
Dated at Washington this eighth day of April, 1975, in the English language. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

