
 Agreement between Denmark (on behalf of Greenland), Iceland and Norway concerning the Stock of Capelin in the Waters between Greenland, Iceland and Jan Mayen   
     Filename: 1989-Capelin.EN.txt 
 Source: http://treaties.un.org/doc/Publication/UNTS/Volume%201548/volume-1548-I-26922-En…     
    ﻿Agreement between Denmark (on behalf of Greenland), Iceland and Norway concerning the Stock of Capelin in the Waters between Greenland, Iceland and Jan Mayen
Source: http://treaties.un.org/doc/Publication/UNTS/Volume%201548/volume-1548-I-..., downloaded on 20131123
Article 1 
The parties shall cooperate in the conservation and management of the stock of capelin in the waters between Greenland, Iceland and Jan Mayen. 
Article 2 
The parties shall endeavour to reach an agreement on the maximum total allowable catch (TAC) for capelin for each season. If agreement is not reached, the maximum total allowable catch shall be determined by Iceland, as the Party with the greatest interest in the stock of capelin. However, Norway and Greenland shall not be bound by that determination if it is clearly unreasonable. Efforts shall be made to determine, before 1 June and 1 December of each year, the provisional and final TAC, respectively, for each season beginning on 1 July and ending on 30 April of the following year. 
Article 3 
The maximum total allowable catch shall be apportioned among the parties as follows: 
Greenland:  11 per cent 
Iceland:  78 per cent 
Norway:  11 per cent 
Article 4 
If one of the parties decides to transfer its quota, wholly or in part, the other Parties shall be so informed. 
Article 5 
1. If, during the course of the season, Norway and Greenland do not catch their quotas, Iceland shall seek to fish the remaining portion. The Party in question shall in that event be compensated in the subsequent season with a corresponding quantity, provided that that Party's shortfall in the preceding season was due to circumstances beyond its control. 
2. If the compensation provided for in paragraph 1 in one season leads to an apportionment that is clearly unreasonable, the Parties shall endeavour to reach an agreement on the manner in which compensation is to be effected. 
Article 6 
1. Greenland and Norwegian vessels shall be permitted to fish for capelin every season until 15 February in the Icelandic economic zone north of 64o 30' N. Iceland shall also permit such vessels to bring their catch ashore in Icelandic ports and to take on supplies in Icelandic ports. At the request of Greenland and in accordance with an agreement with Iceland, for one season at a time, Iceland may grant these rights to vessels of other nationalities with a Greenlandic licence.   
2. The term "Greenlandic vessels" in paragraph 1 means vessels registered in Greenland which fulfil the requirements of the Greenland fisheries law for ownership.  
Article 7 
Icelandic and Norwegian vessels shall be permitted to fish for capelin in the Greenland fishing zone north of 64o 30' N. 
Article 8 
Vessels with a Greenland fishing licence and Icelandic vessels shall be permitted to fish for capelin in the fishing zone off Jan Mayen, subject to such restrictions as the Parties may agree upon, and also to bring their catch ashore in Norwegian ports. 
Article 9 
With regard to the access to fishing mentioned in Articles 6, 7 and 8, each of the Parties may lay down restrictions, for their zone, concerning the size, number and type of vessels. 
Article 10 
The parties shall exchange statistics on capelin catches, on a regular basis.   
Article 11 
The parties shall cooperate in conducting scientific research on the stock of capelin. 
Article 12 
The parties shall meet at least once a year, alternately in each of the three countries, to discuss the implementation of the Agreement. The Parties shall confer the introduction of conservation measures, including proposals to close certain areas in order to protect capelin fry. 
Article 13 
The Agreement shall apply to the seasons from 1 July 1989 to 30 April 1992 inclusive. 
Done at Copenhagen, 12 June 1989. 
For Greenland/Denmark: Kaj Egede
For Norway: Ole Algard
For Iceland: Hordur Helgason 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

