
 Amendments to the Treaty and to the Annexes to the Treaty On Fisheries Between The Governments Of Certain Pacific Island States And The Government Of The United States of America Regarding Longline Fishing on the High Seas of the Treaty Area, the Closing of the Archipelagic Waters of Papua New Guinea, and the Opening of the Waters of Solomon Islands (Article 3.2 and Annex 1)   
     Filename: 1999-AmendmentsLonglinePapuaNewGuineaSolomonIslands-1987-FisheriesPacificIslandsUS.EN.txt 
 Source: 6263 KAV xxiii     
    ﻿Amendments to the Treaty and to the Annexes to the Treaty on Fisheries Between the Governments of Certain Pacific Island States and the Government of the United States of America Regarding Longline Fishing on the High Seas of the Treaty Area, the Closing of the Archipelagic Waters of Papua New Guinea, and the Opening of the Waters of Solomon Islands (Article 3.2 and Annex 1)
Source: 6263 KAV xxiii
1. Amend Article 3.2 to read in its entirety as follows:
"3.2 It shall be a condition of any license issued pursuant to this Treaty that the vessel in respect of which the license is issued is operated in accordance with the requirements of Annex I. No fishing vessel of the United States shall be used for fishing in the Licensing Area without a license issued in accordance with Annex II or in waters closed to fishing pursuant to Annex I, except in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article, or unless the vessel is used for fishing albacore tuna by the trolling method or for fishing by the longline method in high seas areas of the Treaty Area."
2. Amend Annex 1, Schedule 2, ‘Closed Areas', subheading "Papua New Guinea" to read in its entirety as follows:
"Papua New Guinea At all times, all territorial seas, archipelagic and internal waters."
3. Amend Annex 1, Schedule 2, ‘Closed Area', subheading "Solomon Islands" to read in its entirety as follows:
"Solomon Islands At all times, all internal waters, territorial seas, and archipelagic waters together with all waters within the exclusive economic zone of the Solomon Islands that are west of the meridian of Longitude 163 degrees East."
4. Amend Annex 1, Schedule 3, Limited Areas as follows:
Delete the heading Solomon Islands and paragraphs 1, 2, and 3. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

