
 Protocol to the Convention Relative To The Preservation Of Fauna And Flora In Their Natural State   
     Filename: 1933-Protocol-1933-PreservationFaunaFloraNaturalState.EN.txt 
 Source: http://sedac.ciesin.org/entri/texts/fauna.flora.natural.state.1933.html     
    ﻿Protocol To The Convention Relative To The Preservation Of Fauna And Flora In Their Natural State
Source: http://sedac.ciesin.org/entri/texts/fauna.flora.natural.state.1933.html
At the moment of signature of the Convention relative to the Preservation of Fauna and Flora in their Natural State which bears this day's date, the Undersigned, being duly authorised to that effect by their respective Governments, have agreed on the following provisions:
1.In order to facilitate co-operation for the purpose of preventing the extinction of natural fauna and flora and to examine the working of the above-mentioned Convention, as well as the question of any improvements which might be made to it, periodical international Conferences shall be held at appropriate intervals at which the Governments parties to the Convention or on whose behalf the present Protocol has been signed shall be represented.
2.The first of such Conferences shall take place within four years from this day's date, and the arrangements in connection with it shall be made by the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which shall invite the Governments referred to in article 1 of the present Protocol, together with any other Government whose presence may be considered desirable.
3.It is agreed that the matters to be discussed at the above-mentioned Conference shall include (a) the question of the exchange between the Governments of lists of persons known to have been guilty of persistent infringements of game regulations, (b) the question of the exchange of information relating to infectious or contagious diseases of importance for the preservation of fauna or flora, or capable of affecting men as well as animals.
4.Subsequent Conferences shall be held at such dates and in accordance with such arrangements as may be made at the first Conference.
5.The present Protocol, of which the French and English texts shall both be equally authentic, shall bear this day's date, and shall come into force upon signature.
In faith whereof the Undersigned have signed the present Protocol.
Done in London, this eighth day of November, 1933, in a single copy, which shall remain deposited in the archives of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Norther Ireland, which will transmit certified true copies thereof to all the Governments attending the Conference at which the present Protocol has been drawn up, whether as participators or observers, as well as to any other Government to which the Government of the United Kingdom may deem it desirable to communicate a copy. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

