
 Protocol Of Provisional Application Of The European Fisheries Convention   
     Filename: 1964-Protocol-1964-EuropeanFisheries.EN.txt 
 Source: 3 ILM 489     
    ﻿Protocol Of Provisional Application Of The Fisheries Convention Of 9 March 1964
Source:
The Governments of Austria, Belgium, Denmark, the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spam, Sweden and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
The Contracting Parties will raise no objection if a Government which has ratified or approved the Fisheries Convention opened for signature at London on 9th March, 1964, applies provisionally the provisions of the Convention, having first notified its decision to the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Article 2
(1) The provisional application of the provisions of the Fisheries Convention by a Contracting Party will entail the establishment of the list of arbiters provided for in Article 1 of Annex II to the Convention.
(2) A Contracting Party which has provisionally applied the provisions of the Convention shall be bound by its provisions, in particular Article 13, and shall not object if they are invoked by a Government which has signed the present Protocol and the Convention, even if the latter Government has not yet ratified or approved the Convention, with a view to settling a dispute raised by this provisional application.
Article 3
The present Protocol shall be open for signature from 9th March, 1964 to 10th April, 1964. It shall enter into force, when it has been signed by two Governments as between those Governments, and in respect of any Government which signs it thereafter on the date of signature by that Government.
Article 4
(1) Upon the entry into force of the Convention, the present Protocol shall automatically cease to have effect as between Governments which have become parties to the Convention.
(2) The present Protocol shall cease to have effect in respect of any Government which notifies the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of its decision not to ratify or approve the Convention.
Article 5
The Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland shall immediately inform all the signatories of the present Protocol of each notification received in accordance with Article 1 or with paragraph (2) of Article 4.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed the present Protocol.
DONE at London this ninth day of March, 1964, in the English and French languages, each text being equally authoritative, in a single original which shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which shall transmit a certified true copy thereof to each signatory and acceding Government.
For the Government of Austria: Pour le Gouvernement de l'Autriche: 
For the Government of Belgium: Pour le Gouvernement de la Belgique: J. DE THIER 
For the Government of Denmark: Pour le Gouvernement du Danemark: Nils SVENNINGSEN 
For the Government of the French Republic: Pour le Gouvernement de la République Française: G. DE COURCEL 
For the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany: Pour le Gouvernement de la République fédérale d'Allemagne: Hasso VON ETZDORF 
For the Government of Ireland: Pour le Gouvernement de l'Irlande: Seán F. LEMASS 
For the Government of Italy: Pour le Gouvernement de l'Italie: P. QUARONI 
For the Government of Luxembourg: Pour le Gouvernement du Luxembourg: A. J. CLASEN 
For the Government of the Netherlands: Pour le Gouvernement des Pays-Bas: C. W. VAN BOETZELAER 
For the Government of Portugal: Pour le Gouvernement du Portugal: Humberto ALVES MORGADO 
For the Government of Spain: Pour le Gouvernement de l'Espagne: SANTA CRUZ 
For the Government of Sweden: Pour le Gouvernement de la Suède: Gunnar HÄGGLÖF
For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: Pour le Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord: R. A. BUTLER 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

