
 Protocol to the Agreement On Reciprocal Access To Fishing In The Skagerrak And The Kattegat   
     Filename: 1966-Protocol-1966-ReciprocalAccessFishingSkagerrakKattegat.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.intfish.net/treaties/skagerrak.htm     
    ﻿Protocol To The Agreement Between Denmark, Norway And Sweden On Reciprocal Access To Fishing In The Skagerrak And The Kattegat
Source: http://www.intfish.net/treaties/skagerrak.htm, and UNTS 1967, pp. 320ff.
In connexion with the signing at Copenhagen this day of an Agreement between Denmark, Norway and Sweden on reciprocal access to fishing in the Skagerrak and the Kattegat, the Contracting Governments make the following declaration:
The Governments of the three countries are agreed that if, before the Agreement comes into force, any of the Contracting States makes changes in its fishery limits in the area to which the Agreement relates, the said State shall not object if vessels of the other two countries continue to engage in fishing in the said area to a distance of four nautical miles (1 nautical mile = 1,852 metres) from the baseline of the territorial sea. This obligation shall cease if the Agreement does not come into force within two years after the changes are made.
DONE at Copenhagen on 19 December 1966 in one copy in the Danish, Norwegian and Swedish languages, which copy shall be deposited in the archives of the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The said Ministry shall transmit a certified copy of the Protocol to each of the Contracting States.
For the Government of Denmark: J. O. KRAG
For the Government of Norway: B. AUGDAHL
For the Government of Sweden: R. BAGGE 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

