
 Protocol of Signature of the Convention Relating To The Development Of Hydraulic Power Affecting More Than One State   
     Filename: 1923-Protocol-1923-DevelopmentHydraulicPower.EN.txt 
 Source: LNTS, vol. 36, pp. 77.     
    ﻿Protocol Of Signature Of The Convention Relating To The Development Of Hydraulic Power Affecting More Than One State
Source: LNTS, vol. 36, pp. 77.
At the moment of signing the Convention of today's date relating to the development of hydraulic power affecting more than one State, the undersigned, duly authorised, have agreed as follows:
The provisions of the Convention do not in any way modify the responsibility or obligations imposed on States, as regards injury done by the construction of works for development of hydraulic power, by the rules of international law.
The present Protocol will have the same force, effect and duration as the Convention of today's date, of which it is to be considered as an integral part.
In faith whereof the above-named Plenipotentiaries have signed the present Protocol.
DONE at Geneva, the ninth day of December one thousand nine hundred and twenty-three, in a single copy, which will remain deposited in the archives of the Secretariat of the League of Nations ; certified copies will be transmitted to all the States represented at the Conference.
[Here follow the same signatures as those appearing at the end of the Convention.] 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

