
 Adjustments to Annex A of The Montreal Protocol On Substances That Deplete The Ozone Layer agreed to at the Seventh Meeting of the Parties   
     Filename: 1995-AdjustmentsAnnexA-1985-OzoneDepletion.EN.txt 
 Source: http://ozone.unep.org/Treaties_and_Ratification/Montreal_Protocol/adjustments_Mo…     
    ﻿Adjustments agreed at the Seventh Meeting of the Parties
Source: http://ozone.unep.org/Treaties_and_Ratification/Montreal_Protocol/adjust... (original source: Annex I of the report of the Seventh Meeting of the Parties.)
The Seventh Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer decides, on the basis of the assessments made pursuant to Article 6 of the Protocol, to adopt adjustments and reductions of production and consumption of the controlled substances in Annex A to the Protocol as follows:
Article 5: Special situation of developing countries
The following paragraph 8 bis shall be inserted after paragraph 8 of Article 5 of the Protocol:
8 bis. Based on the conclusions of the review referred to in paragraph 8 above:
(a) With respect to the controlled substances in Annex A, a Party operating under paragraph 1 of this Article shall, in order to meet its basic domestic needs, be entitled to delay for ten years its compliance with the control measures adopted by the Second Meeting of the Parties in London, 29 June 1990, and reference by the Protocol to Articles 2A and 2B shall be read accordingly.
Adjustments agreed at the Seventh Meeting of the Parties relating to controlled substances in Annex B
Source: http://ozone.unep.org/Treaties_and_Ratification/Montreal_Protocol/adjust... (original source: Annex II of the report of the Seventh Meeting of the Parties.)
The Seventh Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer decides, on the basis of the assessments made pursuant to Article 6 of the Protocol, to adopt adjustments and reductions of production and consumption of the controlled substances in Annex B to the Protocol as follows:
Article 5: Special situation of developing countries
The following subparagraph shall be inserted after subparagraph (a) of paragraph 8 bis of Article 5 of the Protocol:
(b) With respect to the controlled substances in Annex B, a Party operating under paragraph 1 of this Article shall, in order to meet its basic domestic needs, be entitled to delay for ten years its compliance with the control measures adopted by the Second Meeting of the Parties in London, 29 June 1990, and reference by this Protocol to Articles 2C to 2E shall be read accordingly.
Adjustments agreed at the Seventh Meeting of the Parties relating to controlled substances in Annexes C and E
Source: http://ozone.unep.org/Treaties_and_Ratification/Montreal_Protocol/adjust... (original source: Annex III of the report of the Seventh Meeting of the Parties.)
The Seventh Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer decides, on the basis of the assessments made pursuant to Article 6 of the Protocol, to adopt adjustments and reductions of production and consumption of the controlled substances in Annexes C and E to the Protocol as follows:
Article 2F, paragraph 1 (a): Hydrochlorofluorocarbons
In paragraph 1(a) of Article 2F, for the words:
Three point one there shall be substituted:
Two point eight
Article 2F, paragraph 5: Hydrochlorofluorocarbons
The following sentence shall be added to the end of paragraph 5 of Article 2F of the Protocol:
Such consumption shall, however, be restricted to the servicing of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment existing at that date.
Article 2H: Methyl bromide
Article 2H of the Protocol shall read as follows:
Article 2H: Methyl bromide
1. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 1995, and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of consumption of the controlled substance in Annex E does not exceed, annually, its calculated level of consumption in 1991. Each Party producing the substance shall, for the same periods, ensure that its calculated level of production of the substance does not exceed, annually, its calculated level of production in 1991. However, in order to satisfy the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5, its calculated level of production may exceed that limit by up to ten per cent of its calculated level of production in 1991.
2. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2001, and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of consumption of the controlled substance in Annex E does not exceed, annually, seventy-five per cent of its calculated level of consumption in 1991. Each Party producing the substance shall, for the same periods, ensure that its calculated level of production of the substance does not exceed, annually, seventy-five per cent of its calculated level of production in 1991. However, in order to satisfy the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5, its calculated level of production may exceed that limit by up to ten per cent of its calculated level of production in 1991.
3. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2005, and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of consumption of the controlled substance in Annex E does not exceed, annually, fifty per cent of its calculated level of consumption in 1991. Each Party producing the substance shall, for the same periods, ensure that its calculated level of production of the substance does not exceed, annually, fifty per cent of its calculated level of production in 1991. However, in order to satisfy the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5, its calculated level of production may exceed that limit by up to ten per cent of its calculated level of production in 1991.
4. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2010, and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of consumption of the controlled substance in Annex E does not exceed zero. Each Party producing the substance shall, for the same periods, ensure that its calculated level of production of the substance does not exceed zero. However, in order to satisfy the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5, its calculated level of production may exceed that limit by up to fifteen per cent of its calculated level of production in 1991. This paragraph will apply save to the extent that the Parties decide to permit the level of production or consumption that is necessary to satisfy uses agreed by them to be critical agricultural uses.
5. The calculated levels of consumption and production under this Article shall not include the amounts used by the Party for quarantine and pre-shipment applications.
Article 5, paragraph 8 ter: Special situation of developing countries
The following paragraph 8 ter shall be inserted after paragraph 8 bis of Article 5 of the Protocol:
8 ter. Pursuant to paragraph 1 bis above:
(a) Each Party operating under paragraph 1 of this Article shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2016, and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of consumption of the controlled substances in Group I of Annex C does not exceed, annually, its calculated level of consumption in 2015;
(b) Each Party operating under paragraph 1 of this Article shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2040, and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of consumption of the controlled substances in Group I of Annex C does not exceed zero;
(c) Each Party operating under paragraph 1 of this Article shall comply with Article 2G;
(d) With regard to the controlled substance contained in Annex E:
(i) As of 1 January 2002 each Party operating under paragraph 1 of this Article shall comply with the control measures set out in paragraph 1 of Article 2H and, as the basis for its compliance with these control measures, it shall use the average of its annual calculated level of consumption and production, respectively, for the period of 1995 to 1998 inclusive;
(ii) The calculated levels of consumption and production under this subparagraph shall not include the amounts used by the Party for quarantine and pre-shipment applications.
Annex E: Methyl bromide
For "0.7" in the third column of Annex E substitute "0.6".
Adjustments agreed at the Ninth Meeting of the Parties
Source: http://ozone.unep.org/Treaties_and_Ratification/Montreal_Protocol/adjust... (original source: Annex I of the report of the Ninth Meeting of the Parties.)
The Ninth Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol decides to adopt, in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 9 of Article 2 of the Montreal Protocol and on the basis of the assessments made pursuant to Article 6 of the Protocol, the adjustments with regard to production of the controlled substances listed in Annex A to the Protocol as follows:
Article 5, paragraph 3
The following words shall be added at the end of paragraph 3 (a) of Article 5 of the Protocol:
relating to consumption
The following subparagraph shall be added to paragraph 3 of Article 5 of the Protocol:
(c) For controlled substances under Annex A, either the average of its annual calculated level of production for the period 1995 to 1997 inclusive or a calculated level of production of 0.3 kilograms per capita, whichever is the lower, as the basis for determining its compliance with the control measures relating to production.
Adjustments agreed at the Ninth Meeting of the Parties relating to controlled substances in Annex B
Source: http://ozone.unep.org/Treaties_and_Ratification/Montreal_Protocol/adjust... (original source: Annex II of the report of the Ninth Meeting of the Parties.)
The Ninth Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol decides to adopt, in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 9 of Article 2 of the Montreal Protocol and on the basis of the assessments made pursuant to Article 6 of the Protocol, the adjustments with regard to production of the controlled substances listed in Annex B to the Protocol as follows:
Article 5, paragraph 3
The following words shall be added at the end of paragraph 3 (b) of Article 5 of the Protocol:
relating to consumption
The following subparagraph shall be added to paragraph 3 of Article 5 of the Protocol:
(d) For controlled substances under Annex B, either the average of its annual calculated level of production for the period 1998 to 2000 inclusive or a calculated level of production of 0.2 kilograms per capita, whichever is the lower, as the basis for determining its compliance with the control measures relating to production.
Adjustments agreed at the Ninth Meeting of the Parties relating to the controlled substance in Annex E
Source: http://ozone.unep.org/Treaties_and_Ratification/Montreal_Protocol/adjust... (original source: Annex III of the report of the Ninth Meeting of the Parties.)
The Ninth Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol decides to adopt, in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 9 of Article 2 of the Montreal Protocol and on the basis of the assessments made pursuant to Article 6 of the Protocol, the adjustments and reductions of production and consumption of the controlled substance listed in Annex E to the Protocol as follows:
A. Article 2H: Methyl bromide
1. Paragraphs 2 to 4 of Article 2H of the Protocol shall be replaced by the following paragraphs:
2. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 1999, and in the twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of consumption of the controlled substance in Annex E does not exceed, annually, seventy-five per cent of its calculated level of consumption in 1991. Each Party producing the substance shall, for the same periods, ensure that its calculated level of production of the substance does not exceed, annually, seventy-five per cent of its calculated level of production in 1991. However, in order to satisfy the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5, its calculated level of production may exceed that limit by up to ten per cent of its calculated level of production in 1991.
3. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2001, and in the twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of consumption of the controlled substance in Annex E does not exceed, annually, fifty per cent of its calculated level of consumption in 1991. Each Party producing the substance shall, for the same periods, ensure that its calculated level of production of the substance does not exceed, annually, fifty per cent of its calculated level of production in 1991. However, in order to satisfy the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5, its calculated level of production may exceed that limit by up to ten per cent of its calculated level of production in 1991.
4. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2003, and in the twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of consumption of the controlled substance in Annex E does not exceed, annually, thirty per cent of its calculated level of consumption in 1991. Each Party producing the substance shall, for the same periods, ensure that its calculated level of production of the substance does not exceed, annually, thirty per cent of its calculated level of production in 1991. However, in order to satisfy the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5, its calculated level of production may exceed that limit by up to ten per cent of its calculated level of production in 1991.
5. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2005, and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of consumption of the controlled substance in Annex E does not exceed zero. Each Party producing the substance shall, for the same periods, ensure that its calculated level of production of the substance does not exceed zero. However, in order to satisfy the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5, its calculated level of production may exceed that limit by up to fifteen per cent of its calculated level of production in 1991. This paragraph will apply save to the extent that the Parties decide to permit the level of production or consumption that is necessary to satisfy uses agreed by them to be critical uses.
2. Paragraph 5 of Article 2H of the Protocol shall become paragraph 6.
B. Article 5, paragraph 8 ter (d)
1. The following shall be inserted after paragraph 8 ter (d) (i) of Article 5 of the Protocol:
(ii) Each Party operating under paragraph 1 of this Article shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2005, and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated levels of consumption and production of the controlled substance in Annex E do not exceed, annually, eighty per cent of the average of its annual calculated levels of consumption and production, respectively, for the period of 1995 to 1998 inclusive;
(iii) Each Party operating under paragraph 1 of this Article shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2015 and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated levels of consumption and production of the controlled substance in Annex E do not exceed zero. This paragraph will apply save to the extent that the Parties decide to permit the level of production or consumption that is necessary to satisfy uses agreed by them to be critical uses;
2. Paragraph 8 ter (d) (ii) of Article 5 of the Protocol shall become paragraph 8 ter (d) (iv).
Adjustments agreed at the Eleventh Meeting of the Parties
Source: http://ozone.unep.org/Treaties_and_Ratification/Montreal_Protocol/adjust... (original source: Annex II of the report of the Eleventh Meeting of the Parties.)
A. Article 2A: CFCs
1. The third sentence of paragraph 4 of Article 2A of the Protocol shall be replaced by the following sentence:
However, in order to satisfy the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5, its calculated level of production may exceed that limit by a quantity equal to the annual average of its production of the controlled substances in Group I of Annex A for basic domestic needs for the period 1995 to 1997 inclusive.
2. The following paragraphs shall be added after paragraph 4 of Article 2A of the Protocol:
5. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2003 and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of production of the controlled substances in Group I of Annex A for the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 does not exceed eighty per cent of the annual average of its production of those substances for basic domestic needs for the period 1995 to 1997 inclusive.
6. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2005 and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of production of the controlled substances in Group I of Annex A for the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 does not exceed fifty per cent of the annual average of its production of those substances for basic domestic needs for the period 1995 to 1997 inclusive.
7. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2007 and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of production of the controlled substances in Group I of Annex A for the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 does not exceed fifteen per cent of the annual average of its production of those substances for basic domestic needs for the period 1995 to 1997 inclusive.
8. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2010 and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of production of the controlled substances in Group I of Annex A for the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 does not exceed zero.
9. For the purposes of calculating basic domestic needs under paragraphs 4 to 8 of this Article, the calculation of the annual average of production by a Party includes any production entitlements that it has transferred in accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 2, and excludes any production entitlements that it has acquired in accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 2.
B. Article 2B: Halons
1. The third sentence of paragraph 2 of Article 2B of the Protocol shall be replaced by the following sentence:
However, in order to satisfy the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5, its calculated level of production may, until 1 January 2002 exceed that limit by up to fifteen per cent of its calculated level of production in 1986; thereafter, it may exceed that limit by a quantity equal to the annual average of its production of the controlled substances in Group II of Annex A for basic domestic needs for the period 1995 to 1997 inclusive.
2. The following paragraphs shall be added after paragraph 2 of Article 2B of the Protocol:
3. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2005 and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of production of the controlled substances in Group II of Annex A for the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 does not exceed fifty per cent of the annual average of its production of those substances for basic domestic needs for the period 1995 to 1997 inclusive.
4. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2010 and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of production of the controlled substances in Group II of Annex A for the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 does not exceed zero.
Adjustments agreed at the Eleventh Meeting of the Parties relating to controlled substances in Annex B
Source: http://ozone.unep.org/Treaties_and_Ratification/Montreal_Protocol/adjust... (original source: Annex III of the report of the Eleventh Meeting of the Parties.)
Article 2C: Other fully halogenated CFCs
1. The third sentence of paragraph 3 of Article 2C of the Protocol shall be replaced by the following sentence:
However, in order to satisfy the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5, its calculated level of production may, until 1 January 2003 exceed that limit by up to fifteen per cent of its calculated level of production in 1989; thereafter, it may exceed that limit by a quantity equal to eighty per cent of the annual average of its production of the controlled substances in Group I of Annex B for basic domestic needs for the period 1998 to 2000 inclusive.
2. The following paragraphs shall be added after paragraph 3 of Article 2C of the Protocol:
4. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2007 and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of production of the controlled substances in Group I of Annex B for the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 does not exceed fifteen per cent of the annual average of its production of those substances for basic domestic needs for the period 1998 to 2000 inclusive.
5. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2010 and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of production of the controlled substances in Group I of Annex B for the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 does not exceed zero.
Adjustments agreed at the Eleventh Meeting of the Parties relating to the controlled substance in Annex E
Source: http://ozone.unep.org/Treaties_and_Ratification/Montreal_Protocol/adjust... (original source: Annex IV of the report of the Eleventh Meeting of the Parties.)
Article 2H: Methyl bromide
1. The third sentence of paragraph 5 of Article 2H of the Protocol shall be replaced by the following sentence:
However, in order to satisfy the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5, its calculated level of production may, until 1 January 2002 exceed that limit by up to fifteen per cent of its calculated level of production in 1991; thereafter, it may exceed that limit by a quantity equal to the annual average of its production of the controlled substance in Annex E for basic domestic needs for the period 1995 to 1998 inclusive.
2. The following paragraphs shall be added after paragraph 5 of Article 2H of the Protocol:
5 bis. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2005 and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of production of the controlled substance in Annex E for the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 does not exceed eighty per cent of the annual average of its production of the substance for basic domestic needs for the period 1995 to 1998 inclusive.
5 ter. Each Party shall ensure that for the twelve-month period commencing on 1 January 2015 and in each twelve-month period thereafter, its calculated level of production of the controlled substance in Annex E for the basic domestic needs of the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 does not exceed zero. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

