
 Amendment to Annex I and Adoption of additional Annexes VIII and IX To The Convention On The Control Of Transboundary Movements Of Hazardous Wastes And Their Disposal   
     Filename: 1998-Amendment-1989-TransboundaryMovementHazardousWaste.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/nia/1998/16.html     
    ﻿Amendment And Adoption Of Annexes To The Basel Convention On The Control Of Transboundary Movements Of Hazardous Wastes And Their Disposal Of 22 March 1989
Source: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/nia/1998/16.html, downloaded
Decision Adopted as Decision IV/9 by the fourth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Basel Convention.
The Conference
Recalling decision III/1 of the Conference of the Parties, which instructed the Technical Working Group, among other things, to give full priority to completing the work on hazard characterization and the development of lists, in order to submit them for approval to the fourth meeting of the Conference of the Parties,
Recalling decision III/12 of the Conference of the Parties, which instructed the Technical Working Group, among other things, to consider ways of taking forward the development of lists of hazardous wastes and the applicable procedure for their review based on the outcome of the work of the Technical Working Group, as well as further developing lists of wastes not covered by this Convention,
Taking note of the work carried out by the Technical Working Group and in particular the development of a list of wastes that are characterized as hazardous pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 1(a), (list A contained in the note on consolidated lists of wastes and the applicable procedures for their review and adjustment (UNEP/CHW.4/3)) and a list of wastes that are not covered by Article 1, paragraph 1(a), of this Convention (list B contained in the note in consolidated lists of wastes and the applicable procedures for their review and adjustment), as well as the progress made in the development of a procedure for reviewing or adjusting these lists and of an application form required for the placement or removal of wastes on these lists,
Considering that Annex I and Annex III shall remain the factors to characterize wastes as hazardous for the purpose of this Convention, that lists A and B developed by the Technical Working Group provide an expeditious way to facilitate the implementation of this Convention, including Article 4A, by establishing wastes that are and wastes that are not covered by Article 1, paragraph 1(a), of this Convention, and that these lists should have equal status,
Noting that wastes listed in lists A and B are an elaboration and clarification of the provisions of Article 1, paragraph 1(a), of this Convention by reference to Annexes I and III,
Recognizing that List A and List B are not intended to be exhaustive,
Taking note that the Open-ended Ad Hoc Committee decided at its third meeting to propose that the Conference of the Parties extend the mandate of the Technical Working Group to take charge of the procedure for reviewing or adjusting the lists of wastes and that the Conference of the Parties adopt the application form for this purpose, as set out in the note on consolidated lists of wastes and the applicable procedures for their review and adjustment,
Taking note that, pursuant to decision IV/6, the Technical Working Group is instructed to keep the lists of wastes under review and to make recommendations to the Conference of the Parties for revisions or adjustments,
Further taking note that, pursuant to decision IV/6, the Technical Working Group is instructed to review the procedure for reviewing or adjusting the lists of wastes, including the Application Form as set out in the note on consolidated lists of wastes and the applicable procedures for their review and adjustment and to submit a proposal for approval at the fifth meeting of the Conference of the Parties,
Decides to adopt the following amendment and adoption of annexes to this Convention:
1. Add the following paragraphs at the end of Annex I:
(a) To facilitate the application of this Convention, and subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d), wastes listed in Annex VIII are characterized as hazardous pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 1 (a), of this Convention, and wastes listed in Annex IX are not covered by Article 1, paragraph 1(a), of this Convention.
(b) Designation of a waste on Annex VIII does not preclude, in a particular case, the use of Annex III to demonstrate that a waste is not hazardous pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 1(a), of this Convention.
(c) Designation of a waste on Annex IX does not preclude, in a particular case, characterization of such a waste as hazardous pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 1(a), of this Convention if it contains Annex I material to an extent causing it to exhibit an Annex III characteristic.
(d) Annexes VIII and IX do not affect the application of Article 1, paragraph 1(a), of this Convention for the purpose of characterization of wastes.
2. Add the following two new annexes to the Convention as its Annexes VIII and IX.
ANNEX VIII
LIST A
Wastes contained in this Annex are characterized as hazardous under Article 1, paragraph 1(a), of this Convention, and their designation on this Annex does not preclude the use of Annex III to demonstrate that a waste is not hazardous.
A1 Metal and metal-bearing wastes
A1010 Metal wastes and waste consisting of alloys of any of the following:
. Antimony
. Arsenic
. Beryllium
. Cadmium
. Lead
. Mercury
. Selenium
. Tellurium
. Thallium
but excluding such wastes specifically listed on list B.
A1020 Waste having as constituents or contaminants, excluding metal waste in massive form, any of the following:
. Antimony; antimony compounds
. Beryllium; beryllium compounds
. Cadmium; cadmium compounds
. Lead; lead compounds
. Selenium; selenium compounds
. Tellurium; tellurium compounds
A1030 Wastes having as constituents or contaminants any of the following:
. Arsenic; arsenic compounds
. Mercury; mercury compounds
. Thallium; thallium compounds
A1040 Wastes having as constituents any of the following:
. Metal carbonyls
. Hexavalent chromium compounds
A1050 Galvanic sludges
A1060 Waste liquors from the pickling of metals
A1070 Leaching residues from zinc processing, dust and sludges such as jarosite, hematite, etc.
A1080 Waste zinc residues not included on list B, containing lead and cadmium in concentrations sufficient to exhibit Annex III characteristics
A1090 Ashes from the incineration of insulated copper wire
A1100 Dusts and residues from gas cleaning systems of copper smelters
A1110 Spent electrolytic solutions from copper electrorefining and electrowinning operations
A1120 Waste sludges, excluding anode slimes, from electrolyte purification systems in copper electrorefining and electrowinning operations
A1130 Spent etching solutions containing dissolved copper
A1140 Waste cupric chloride and copper cyanide catalysts
A1150 Precious metal ash from incineration of printed circuit boards not included on list B[1]
A1160 Waste lead-acid batteries, whole or crushed
A1170 Unsorted waste batteries excluding mixtures of only list B batteries. Waste batteries not specified on list B containing Annex I constituents to an extent to render them hazardous
A1180 Waste electrical and electronic assemblies or scrap[2] containing components such as accumulators and other batteries included on list A, mercury-switches, glass from cathode-ray tubes and other activated glass and PCB-capacitors, or contaminated with Annex I constituents (eg cadmium, mercury, lead, polychlorinated biphenyl) to an extent that they possess any of the characteristics contained in Annex III (note the related entry on list B B1110).[3]
A2 Wastes containing principally inorganic constituents, which may contain
metals and organic materials
A2010 Glass waste from cathode-ray tubes and other activated glasses
A2020 Waste inorganic fluorine compounds in the form of liquids or sludges but excluding such wastes specified on list B
A2030 Waste catalysts but excluding such wastes specified on list B
A2040 Waste gypsum arising from chemical industry processes, when containing Annex I constituents to the extent that it exhibits an Annex III hazardous characteristic (note the related entry on list B B2080)
A2050 Waste asbestos (dusts and fibres)
A2060 Coal-fired power plant fly-ash containing Annex I substances in concentrations sufficient to exhibit Annex III characteristics (Note the related entry on list B B2050)
A3 Wastes containing principally organic constituents, which may contain
metals and inorganic materials
A3010 Waste from the production or processing of petroleum coke and bitumen
A3020 Waste mineral oils unfit for their originally intended use
A3030 Wastes that contain, consist of or are contaminated with leaded anti-knock compound sludges
A3040 Waste thermal (heat transfer) fluids
A3050 Wastes from production, formulation and use of resins, latex, plasticizers, glues/adhesives excluding such wastes specified on list B (note the related entry on list B B4020)
A3060 Waste nitrocellulose
A3070 Waste phenols, phenol compounds including chlorophenol in the form of liquids or sludges
A3080 Waste ethers not including those specified on list B
A3090 Waste leather dust, ash, sludges and flours when containing hexavalent chromium compounds or biocides (note the related entry on list B B3100)
A3100 Waste paring and other waste of leather or of composition leather not suitable for the manufacture of leather articles containing hexavalent chromium compounds or biocides (Note the related entry on list B B3090)
A3110 Fellmongery wastes containing hexavalent chromium compounds or biocides or infectious substances (note the related entry on list B B3110)
A3120 Fluff - light fraction from shredding
A3130 Waste organic phosphorous compounds
A3140 Waste non-halogenated organic solvents but excluding such wastes specified on list B
A3150 Waste halogenated organic solvents
A3160 Waste halogenated or unhalogenated non-aqueous distillation residues arising from organic solvent recovery operations
A3170 Wastes arising from the production of aliphatic halogenated hydrocarbons (such as chloromethane, dichloro-ethane, vinyl chloride, vinylidene chloride, allyl chloride and epichlorhydrin)
A3180 Wastes, substances and articles containing, consisting of or contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB), polychlorinated terphenyl (PCT), polychlorinated napthalene (PCN) or polybrominated biphenyl (PBB), or any other polybrominated analogues of these compounds, at a concentration level of 50 mg/kg or more
A3190 Waste tarry residues (excluding asphalt cements) arising from refining, distillation and any pyrolitic treatment of organic materials
A4 Wastes which may contain either inorganic or organic constituents
A4010 Wastes from the production, preparation and use of pharmaceutical products but excluding such wastes specified on list B
A4020 Clinical and related wastes; that is wastes arising from medical, nursing, dental, veterinary or similar practices, and wastes generated in hospitals or other facilities during the investigation or treatment of patients, or research projects
A4030 Wastes from the production, formulation and use of biocides and phytopharmaceuticals, including waste pesticides and herbicides which are off-specification, out-dated,[4] or unfit for their originally intended use
A4040 Wastes from the manufacture, formulation and use of wood-preserving chemicals
A4050 Wastes that contain, consist of or are contaminated with any of the following:
. Inorganic cyanides, excepting precious-metal-bearing residues in solid form containing traces of inorganic cyanides
. Organic cyanides
A4060 Waste oils/water, hydrocarbons/water mixtures, emulsions
A4070 Wastes from the production, formulation and use of inks, dyes, pigments, paints, lacquers, varnish excluding any such waste specified on list B (note the related entry on list B B4010)
A4080 Wastes of an explosive nature (but excluding such wastes specified on list B)
A4090 Waste acidic or basic solutions, other than those specified in the corresponding entry on list B (note the related entry on list B B2120)
A4100 Wastes from industrial pollution control devices for cleaning of industrial off-gases but excluding such wastes specified on list B
A4110 Wastes that contain, consist of or are contaminated with any of the following:
. Any congenor of polychlorinated dibenzo-furan
. Any congenor of polychlorinated dibenzo-dioxin
A4120 Wastes that contain, consist of or are contaminated with peroxides
A4130 Waste packages and containers containing Annex I substances in concentrations sufficient to exhibit Annex III hazard characteristics
A4140 Waste consisting of or containing off specification or out-dated chemicals corresponding to Annex I categories and exhibiting Annex III hazard characteristics
A4150 Waste chemical substances arising from research and development or teaching activities which are not identified and/or are new and whose effects on human health and/or the environment are not known
A4160 Spent activated carbon not included on list B (note the related entry on list B B2060)
ANNEX IX
LIST B
Wastes contained in the Annex will not be wastes covered by Article 1, paragraph 1(a), of this Convention unless they contain Annex I material to an extent causing them to exhibit an Annex III characteristic.
B1 Metal and metal-bearing wastes
B1010 Metal and metal-alloy wastes in metallic, non-dispersible form:
. Precious metals (gold, silver, the platinum group, but not mercury)
. Iron and steel scrap
. Copper scrap
. Nickel scrap
. Aluminium scrap
. Zinc scrap
. Tin scrap
. Tungsten scrap
. Molybdenum scrap
. Tantalum scrap
. Magnesium scrap
. Cobalt scrap
. Bismuth scrap
. Titanium scrap
. Zirconium scrap
. Manganese scrap
. Germanium scrap
. Vanadium scrap
. Scrap of hafnium, indium, niobium, rhenium and gallium
. Thorium scrap
. Rare earths scrap
B1020 Clean, uncontaminated metal scrap, including alloys, in bulk finished form (sheet, plate, beams, rods, etc), of:
. Antimony scrap
. Beryllium scrap
. Cadmium scrap
. Lead scrap (but excluding lead-acid batteries)
. Selenium scrap
. Tellurium scrap
B1030 Refractory metals containing residues
B1040 Scrap assemblies from electrical power generation not contaminated with lubricating oil, PCB or PCT to an extent to render them hazardous
B1050 Mixed non-ferrous metal, heavy fraction scrap, not containing Annex I materials in concentrations sufficient to exhibit Annex III characteristics[5]
B1060 Waste selenium and tellurium in metallic elemental form including powder
B1070 Waste of copper and copper alloys in dispersible form, unless they contain Annex I constituents to an extent that they exhibit Annex III characteristics
B1080 Zinc ash and residues including zinc alloys residues in dispersible form unless containing Annex I constituents in concentration such as to exhibit Annex III characteristics or exhibiting hazard characteristics H4.3[6]
B1090 Waste batteries conforming to a specification, excluding those made with lead, cadmium or mercury
B1100 Metal-bearing wastes arising from melting, smelting and refining of metals:
. Hard zinc spelter
. Zinc-containing drosses:
- Galvanizing slab zinc top dross (&gt;90% Zn)
- Galvanizing slab zinc bottom dross (&gt;92% Zn)
- Zinc die casting dross (&gt;85% Zn)
- Hot dip galvanizers slab zinc dross (batch) (&gt;92% Zn)
- Zinc skimmings
. Aluminium skimmings (or skims) excluding salt slag
. Slags from copper processing for further processing or refining not containing arsenic, lead or cadmium to an extent that they exhibit Annex III hazard characteristics
. Wastes of refractory linings, including crucibles, originating from copper smelting
. Slags from precious metals processing for further refining
. Tantalum-bearing tin slags with less than 0.5% tin
B1110 Electrical and electronic assemblies:
. Electronic assemblies consisting only of metals or alloys
. Waste electrical and electronic assemblies or scrap[7] (including printed circuit boards) not containing components such as accumulators and other batteries included on list A, mercury-switches, glass from cathode-ray tubes and other activated glass and PCB-capacitors, or not contaminated with Annex I constituents (eg, cadmium, mercury, lead, polychlorinated biphenyl) or from which these have been removed, to an extent that they do not possess any of the characteristics contained in Annex III (note the related entry on list A A1180)
. Electrical and electronic assemblies (including printed circuit boards, electronic components and wires) destined for direct re-use,[8] and not for recycling or final disposal[9]
[B1120] Spent catalysts excluding liquids used as catalysts, containing any of:
Transition metals, excluding waste catalysts (spent catalysts, liquid used catalysts or other catalysts) on list A: scandium, vanadium, manganese, cobalt, copper, yttrium, niobium, hafnium, tungsten, titanium, chromium, iron, nickel, zinc, zirconium, molybdenum;
Lanthanides (rare earth metals): lanthanum, praseodymium, samarium, gadolinium, dysprosium, erbium, ytterbium, cerium, neody, europium, terbium, holmium, thulium, lutetium.
B1130 Clean spent precious-metal-bearing catalysts
B1140 Precious-metal-bearing residues in solid form which contain traces of inorganic cyanides
B1150 Precious metals and alloy wastes (gold, silver, the platinum group, but not mercury) in a dispersible, non-liquid form with appropriate packaging and labelling
B1160 Precious-metal ash from the incineration of printed circuit boards (note the related entry on list A A1150)
B1170 Precious-metal ash from the incineration of photographic film
B1180 Waste photographic film containing silver halides and metallic silver
B1190 Waste photographic paper containing silver halides and metallic silver
B1200 Granulated slag arising from the manufacture of iron and steel
B1210 Slag arising from the manufacture of iron and steel including slags as a source of TiO2 and vanadium
B1220 Slag from zinc production, chemically stabilized, having a high iron content (above 20%) and processed according to industrial specifications (eg, DIN 4301) mainly for construction
B1230 Mill scaling arising from the manufacture of iron and steel
B1240 Copper oxide mill-scale
B2 Wastes containing principally inorganic constituents,
which may contain metals and organic materials
B2010 Wastes from mining operations in non-dispersible form:
. Natural graphite waste
. Slate waste, whether or not roughly trimmed or merely cut, by sawing or otherwise
. Mica waste
. Leucite, nepheline and nepheline syenite waste
. Feldspar waste
. Fluorspar waste
. Silica wastes in solid form excluding those used in foundry operations
B2020 Glass waste in non-dispersible form:
. Cullet and other waste and scrap of glass except for glass from cathode-ray tubes and other activated glasses
B2030 Ceramic wastes in non-dispersible form:
. Cermet wastes and scrap (metal ceramic composites)
. Ceramic based fibres not elsewhere specified or included
B2040 Other wastes containing principally inorganic constituents:
. Partially refined calcium sulphate produced from flue-gas desulphurization (FDG)
. Waste gypsum wallboard or plasterboard arising from the demolition of buildings
. Slag from copper production, chemically stabilized, having a high iron content (above 20%) and processed according to industrial specifications (eg DIN 4301 and DIN 8201) mainly for construction and abrasive applications
. Sulphur in solid form
. Limestone from the production of calcium cyanide (having a pH less than 9)
. Sodium, potassium, calcium chlorides
. Carborundum (silicon carbide)
. Broken concrete
. Lithium-tantalum and lithium-niobium containing glass scraps
B2050 Coal-fired power plant fly-ash, not included on list A (note the related entry on list A A2060)
B2060 Spent activated carbon resulting from the treatment of potable water and processes of the food industry and vitamin production (note the related entry on List A A4160)
B2070 Calcium fluoride sludge
B2080 Waste gypsum arising from chemical industry processes not included on list A (note the related entry on list A A2040)
B2090 Waste anode butts from steel or aluminium production made of petroleum coke or bitumen and cleaned to normal industry specifications (excluding anode butts from chlor alkali electrolyses and from metallurgical industry)
B2100 Waste hydrates of aluminium and waste alumina and residues from alumina production excluding such materials used for gas cleaning, flocculation or filtration processes
B2110 Bauxite residue ("red mud") (pH moderated to less than 11.5)
B2120 Waste acidic or basic solutions with a pH greater than 2 and less than 11.5, which are not corrosive or otherwise hazardous (note the related entry on list A A4090)
B3 Wastes containing principally organic constituents, which may contain
metals and inorganic materials
B3010 Solid plastic waste:
The following plastic or mixed plastic materials, provided they are not mixed with other wastes and are prepared to a specification:
. Scrap plastic on non-halogenated polymers and co-polymers, including but not limited to the following[10] :
- ethylene
- styrene
- polypropylene
- polyethylene terephthalate
- acrylonitrile
- butadiene
- polyacetals
- polyamides
- polybutylene terephthalate
- polycarbonates
- polyethers
- polyphenylene sulphides
- acrylic polymers
- alkanes C10-C13 (plasticiser)
- polyurethane (not containing CFCs)
- polysiloxanes
- polymethyl methacrylate
- polyvinyl alcohol
- polyvinyl butyral
- polyvinyl acetate
. Cured waste resins or condensation products including the following:
- urea formaldehyde resins
- phenol formaldehyde resins
- melamine formaldehyde resins
- epoxy resins
- alkyd resins
- polyamides
. The following fluorinated polymer wastes[11]
- perfluoroethylene/propylene (FEP)
- perfluoroalkoxy alkane (PFA)
- perfluoroalkoxy alkane (MFA)
- polyvinylfluoride (PVF)
- polyvinylidenefluoride (PVDF)
B3020 Paper, paperboard and paper product wastes
The following materials, provided they are not mixed with hazardous wastes:
Waste and scrap of paper or paperboard of:
. unbleached paper or paperboard or of corrugated paper or paperboard
. other paper or paperboard, made mainly of bleached chemical pulp, not coloured in the mass
. paper or paperboard made mainly of mechanical pulp (for example newspapers, journals and similar printed matter)
. other, including but not limited to 1) laminated paperboard 2) unsorted scrap
B3030 Textile wastes
The following materials, provided they are not mixed with other wastes and are prepared to a specification:
. Silk waste (including cocoons unsuitable for reeling, yarn waste and garnetted stock)
- not carded or combed
- other
- Wastes shall not be mixed
- Problems arising from open-burning practices to be considered
. Waste of wool or of fine or coarse animal hair, including yarn waste but excluding garnetted stock
- noils of wool or of fine animal hair
- other waste of wool or of fine animal hair
- waste of coarse animal hair
. Cotton waste (including yarn waste and garnetted stock)
- yarn waste (including thread waste)
- garnetted stock
- other
. Flax tow and waste
. Tow and waste (including yarn waste and garnetted stock) of true hemp (Cannabis sativa L.)
. Tow and waste (including yarn waste and garnetted stock) of jute and other textile bast fibres (excluding flax, true hemp and ramie)
. Tow and waste (including yarn waste and garnetted stock) of sisal and other textile fibres of the genus Agave
. Tow, noils and waste (including yarn waste and garnetted stock) of coconut
. Tow, noils and waste (including yarn waste and garnetted stock) of abaca (Manila hemp or Musa textilis Nee)
. Tow, noils and waste (including yarn waste and garnetted stock) or ramie and other vegetable textile fibres, not elsewhere specified or included
. Waste (including noils, yarn waste and garnetted stock) of man-made fibres
- of synthetic fibres
- of artificial fibres
. Worn clothing and other worn textile articles
. Used rags, scrap twine, cordage, rope and cables and worn out articles of twine, cordage, rope or cables of textile materials
- sorted
- other
B3040 Rubber wastes
The following materials, provided they are not mixed with other wastes:
. Waste and scrap of hard rubber (eg ebonite)
. Other rubber wastes (excluding such wastes specified elsewhere)
B3050 Untreated cork and wood waste:
. Wood waste and scrap, whether or not agglomerated in logs, briquettes, pellets or similar forms
. Cork waste: crushed, granulated or ground cork
B3060 Wastes arising from agro-food industries provided it is not infectious:
. Wine lees
. Dried and sterilized vegetable waste, residues and by-products, whether or not in the form of pellets, of a kind used in animal feeding, not elsewhere specified or included
. Degras: residues resulting from the treatment of fatty substances or animal or vegetable waxes
. Waste of bones and horn-cores, unworked, defatted, simply prepared (but not cut to shape), treated with acid or degelatinised Fish waste
. Cocoa shells, husks, skins and other cocoa waste
. Other wastes from the agro-food industry excluding by-products which meet national and international requirements and standards for human or animal consumption
B3070 The following wastes:
. Waste of human hair
. Waste straw
. Deactivated fungus mycelium from penicillin production to be used as animal feed
B3080 Waste parings and scrap of rubber
B3090 Paring and other wastes of leather or of composition leather not suitable for the manufacture of leather articles, excluding leather sludges, not containing hexavalent chromium compounds and biocides (note the related entry on list A A3100)
B3100 Leather dust, ash, sludges or flours not containing hexavalent chromium compounds or biocides (note the related entry on list A A3090)
B3110 Fellmongery wastes not containing hexavalent chromium compounds or biocides or infectious substances (note the related entry on list A A3110)
B3120 Wastes consisting of food dyes
B3130 Waste polymer ethers and waste non-hazardous monomer ethers incapable of forming peroxides
B3140 Waste pneumatic tyres, excluding those destined for Annex IVA operations
B4 Wastes which may contain either inorganic or organic constituents
B4010 Wastes consisting mainly of water-based/latex paints, inks and hardened varnishes not containing organic solvents, heavy metals or biocides to an extent to render them hazardous (note the related entry on list A A4070)
B4020 Wastes from production, formulation and use of resins, latex, plasticizers, glues/adhesives, not listed on list A, free of solvents and other contaminants to an extent that they do not exhibit Annex III characteristics, eg, water based, or glues based on casein starch, dextrin, cellulose ethers, polyvinyl alcohols (note the related entry on list A A3050)
B4030 Used single use cameras, with batteries not included on list A
[1] Note that mirror entry on list B (B1160) does not specify exceptions
[2] This entry does not include scrap assemblies from electric power generation
[3] PCBs are at a concentration level of 50 mg/kg or more.
[4] "Out-dated" means unused within the period recommended by the manufacturer.
[5] Note that even where low level contamination with Annex I materials initially exists, subsequent processes, including recycling processes, may result in separated fractions containing significantly enhanced concentrations of those Annex I materials.
[6] The status of zinc ash is currently under review and there is a recommendation with United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) that zinc ashes should not be dangerous goods.
[7] This entry does not include scrap from electrical power generation.
[8] Reuse can include repair, refurbishment or upgrading, but not major reassembly.
[9] In some countries these materials destined for direct re-use are not considered wastes.
[10] It is understood that such scraps are completely polymerized.
[11] Post-consumer wastes are excluded from this entry. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

