
 Protocol on Industrial Policy Amending the Treaty Establishing The Caribbean Community   
     Filename: 1998-ProtocolIndustrialPolicy-1973-CaribbeanCommunity.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.sice.oas.org/trade/ccme/PROTOC3a.asp     
    ﻿Protocol III On Industrial Policy Amending The Treaty Establishing The Caribbean Community
Source: http://www.sice.oas.org/trade/ccme/PROTOC3a.asp, downloaded 20180220
PREAMBLE
Convinced that market-driven industrial development in the production of goods and services is essential to the economic and social development of the peoples of the Community;
Conscious that trade liberalisation and globalisation have operated to underscore the importance of international competitiveness as an essential condition of survival in the national, regional and international market place;
Recognising the potential of micro, small, and medium enterprise development to contribute to the expansion and viability of national economies of the Community;
Recognising further the importance of large enterprises for achieving economies of scale in the production process;
Mindful of the imperatives of research and development and technology transfer and adaptation for the competitiveness of Community enterprises on a sustainable basis;
Desirous of establishing and maintaining a sound and stable macro-economic environment that is conducive to investment, including cross-border investments, and the competitive production of goods and services in the Community;
Aware that differences in resource endowment and in the levels of economic development of Member States, may affect the implementation of the Community Industrial Policy;
Determined to promote and establish a sustainable balance between industrial development and environmental integrity;
Have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
Use of Terms
1. In this Protocol unless the context otherwise requires;
"Community" includes the Caribbean Single Market and Economy to be established by the Protocols amending or replacing the Caribbean Common Market Annex to the Treaty, as amended by Protocol 1;
"the Council for Finance and Planning" means the Organ of the Community so named in Article 6(2)(d) of the Treaty, as amended by Protocol I;
"the Council for Foreign and Community Relations"means the Organ so named in Article 6(2)(b) of the Treaty, as amended by Protocol I;
"the Council for Human and Social Development" means the Organ of the Community so named in Article 6(2)(c) of the Treaty, as amended by Protocol I;
"the Council for Trade and Economic Development" means the Organ of the Community so named in Article 6(2)(a) of the Treaty, as amended by Protocol I;
"economic enterprises" means economic enterprises within the meaning of Article 35a(5)(b) of the Common Market Annex to the Treaty, as amended by the Protocol amending the Treaty to provide for rights of establishment, provision of services, movement of capital;
"Treaty" means the Treaty establishing the Caribbean Community signed at Chaguaramas on the 4th day of July 1973 and includes any amendments thereto which take effect either provisionally or definitively (herein referred to as "the Treaty").
2. In this Protocol a reference to Protocol I is a reference to the Protocol amending the Treaty and signed at Antigua and Barbuda on 19 February, 1997.
ARTICLE II
Amendment
The provisions of this Protocol shall replace the Articles in Chapter Six of the Caribbean Common Market Annex (except Articles 43,48 and 49) to the Treaty and shall take effect as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE III
Replace Article 39 with the following:
"Article 39
Objectives of the Community Industrial Policy
1. The goal of the Community Industrial Policy shall be market-led, internationally competitive and sustainable production of goods and services for the promotion of the Region's economic and social development.
2. In fulfilment of the goal set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Community shall pursue the following objectives:
(a) cross-border employment of natural resources, human resources, capital, technology and management capabilities for the production of goods and services on a sustainable basis;
(b) linkages among economic sectors and enterprises within and among Member States of the Single Market and Economy;
(c) regional economic enterprises capable of achieving scales of production to facilitate successful competition in domestic and extra-regional markets;
(d) a viable micro and small economic enterprise sector;
(e) enhanced and diversified production of goods and services for both export and domestic markets;
(f) public and private sector collaboration in order to secure market-led production of goods and services;
(g) industrial production on an environmentally sustainable basis;
(h) balanced economic and social development in the CARICOM Single Market and Economy bearing in mind the special needs of disadvantaged countries, regions and sectors within the meaning of Article I of the Protocol amending the Treaty providing for disadvantaged countries, regions and sectors; and
(i) stable industrial relations."
ARTICLE IV
Insert new Article to read as follows:
"Article 39a
Implementation of Community Industrial Policy
1. In order to achieve the objectives of its industrial policy, the Community shall promote, inter alia:
(a) the co-ordination of national industrial policies of Member States;
(b) the establishment and maintenance of an investment-friendly environment, including a facilitative administrative process;
(c) the diversification of the products and markets for goods and services with a view to increasing the range and value of exports;
(d) the organisation and development of product and factor markets;
(e) the development of required institutional, legal, technical, financial, administrative and other support for the establishment or development of micro and small economic enterprises throughout the Community; and
(f) in collaboration with the social partners, the advancement of production integration.
2. The Community shall establish a special regime for disadvantaged countries, regions and sectors.
3. The Council for Trade and Economic Development (hereinafter referred to as "the COTED") shall, in collaboration with competent organs and bodies of the Community and the private sector, establish criteria for according special consideration to particular industries and sectors. Such criteria shall include, in particular, arrangements relating to the prospects of the industry for successful production integration.
4. The COTED shall collaborate with competent agencies to assist Member States in designing appropriate policy instruments to support industries, which may include effective export promotion policies, financing policies, incentives and technology policies.
5. In implementing the Community Industrial Policy, the COTED shall have regard to the provisions of the Treaty relating to environmental protection.
6. Member States shall undertake to establish and maintain appropriate macro-economic policies supportive of efficient production in the Community.
In addition, they shall undertake to put in place arrangements for, inter alia:
(a) effective payment mechanisms;
(b) arrangements for the avoidance of double taxation;
(c) harmonised legislation in relevant areas;
(d) the elimination of bureaucratic impediments to deployment of investments in industrial enterprises;
(e) the improvement of infrastructure and co-operation in the areas of air and maritime transport;
(f) communications systems; and
(g) disputes settlement.
7. In order to facilitate the implementation of the Community Industrial Policy, the COTED shall, in collaboration with competent organs and agencies:
(a) develop strategies for the development and dissemination of market information and appropriate mechanisms to facilitate acquisition, storage and retrieval of such information;
(b) promote the establishment and development of capital markets in Member States; and
(c) encourage Member States to establish and develop export markets, especially in non-traditional sectors, through the development of sector-specific incentives and appropriate policy instruments.
8. For the purpose of this Article, "production integration" includes:
(a) the direct organisation of production in more than one Member State by a single economic enterprise;
(b) complementary production involving collaboration among several economic enterprises operating in one or more Member States to produce and use required inputs in the production chain; and
(c) co-operation among economic enterprises in areas such as purchasing, marketing, and research and development.
ARTICLE V
Replace Article 40 with the following:
"Article 40
Micro and Small Economic Enterprise Development
1. The Community shall adopt appropriate policy measures to encourage the development of competitive micro and small economic enterprises in Member States.
2. Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the competent organ shall encourage policy initiatives and the establishment of effective programmes to foster a facilitative legal, economic, and administrative framework in Member States to enhance micro and small economic enterprise development, and shall promote:
(a) the development of the capacities of national and regional support agencies for micro and small economic enterprises, including the creation of entrepreneurial centres, by organising technical assistance inclusive of planning, delivery and evaluation of support services to the sector;
(b) access to, improvement in the quality of, and opportunities for training and education in areas such as technical skills, entrepreneurial competence and business management for micro and small entrepreneurs;
(c) access by micro and small economic enterprises to the technical assistance provided by the support agencies;
(d) the establishment, development or modernising, as the case may require, of financial institutions to provide, to micro and small economic enterprises, services by way of appropriate and innovative instruments;
(e) innovation within the micro and small enterprise sector; and
(f) the creation of, and access to, trade and technology information networks.
3. For the purposes of this Article, micro and small economic enterprises shall be deemed to be enterprises within the meaning of Article 35b of this Treaty and which satisfy such other criteria as may be determined by the competent authorities.
ARTICLE VI
Replace Article 41 with the following:
"Article 41
Development of the Services Sector
1. The COTED shall, in collaboration with the appropriate Councils, promote the development of the services sector in the Community in order to stimulate economic complementarities among, and accelerate economic development in, Member States. In particular, the COTED shall promote measures to achieve:
(a) increased investment in services;
(b) increased volume, value and range of trade in services within the Community and with third States;
(c) competitiveness in the modes of delivering services; and
(d) enhanced enterprise and infrastructural development, including that of micro and small service enterprises.
2. In order to achieve the objectives set out in paragraph 1, Member States shall, through the appropriate Councils, collaborate in:
(a) designing programmes for the development of human resources to achieve competitiveness in the provision of services;
(b) establishing a regime of incentives for the development of and trade in services; and
(c) adopting measures to promote the establishment of an appropriate institutional and administrative framework and, in collaboration with the Legal Affairs Committee, promote the establishment of the appropriate legal framework to support the services sector in the Community.
3. In the establishment of programmes and policies of the Community for the development of the services sector, the relevant Councils shall give priority to:
(a) the efficient provision of infrastructural services including telecommunications, road, air, maritime and riverain transportation, statistical data generation and financial services;
(b) the development of capacity-enhancing services including education services, research and development services;
(c) the development of services which enhance cross-sector competitiveness;
(d) the facilitation of cross-border provision of services which enhance the competitiveness of the services sector; and
(e) the development of informatics and other knowledge-based services."
ARTICLE VII
Replace Article 42 with the following:
"Article 42
Sustainable Tourism Development
1. The Community shall, in collaboration with competent international organisations, formulate proposals for sustainable tourism development.
These proposals shall recognise the importance of the tourism sub-sector to the economic development of the Region, and the need to conserve its cultural and natural resources and to maintain a balance between a healthy ecology and economic development.
2. The programme for sustainable tourism shall have the following objectives:
(a) an enhanced image for the Region as a tourist destination;
(b) a diversified tourism product of a consistently high quality;
(c) an expanded market-base;
(d) education programmes designed to ensure that appropriate practices are pursued by service-providers;
(e) linkages with other sectors in the economy;
(f) conservation of the natural and cultural resources of the Region through proper management; and
(g) appropriate infrastructure and other services in support of tourism, considering the natural and social carrying-capacity of Member States."
ARTICLE VIII
Replace Article 44 with the following:
"Article 43
Research and Development
1. The COTED shall promote market-led research, technological development and adaptation of appropriate technology in the Community in order to support the production, on a sustainable basis, of goods and services in Member States with a view to diversifying such production and enhancing its international competitiveness.
2. In the discharge of its mandate set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, the COTED shall adopt measures to encourage, inter alia, inventions and innovation, and acquisition, transfer, assimilation, adaptation and diffusion of technologies in the Community. Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the COTED shall:
(a) encourage public and private sector agencies, research establishments and tertiary institutions in their research and technological development activities and assist in identifying sources of funding for such activities;
(b) promote co-operation in research and technological development among Member States and with third States and competent international organisations;
(c) facilitate co-operation:
(i) in training;
(ii) in the exchange of scientific and technical information among competent institutions;
(iii) in the free movement of researchers in the Community;
(iv) among private sector enterprises to integrate the results of research and development in the production process;
(d) develop and implement technological policies and strategies, having due regard for the importance of technology management and protection of intellectual property rights;
(e) facilitate access by Community nationals to technological and research facilities of Member States; and
(f) promote the development of technology extension services."
ARTICLE IX
Insert new Article to read as follows:
"Article 44
Protection of Intellectual Property Rights
The COTED shall promote the protection of intellectual property rights within the Community by, inter alia:
(a) the strengthening of regimes for the protection of intellectual property rights and the simplification of registration procedures in Member States;
(b) the establishment of a regional administration for patents, trademarks and copyright;
(c) the identification and establishment, by Member States of mechanisms to ensure:
(i) the use of protected works and industrial property for the enhanced benefit of Member States;
(ii) the preservation of indigenous Caribbean culture; and
(iii) the legal protection of the expressions of folklore, other traditional knowledge and national heritage, particularly of indigenous populations in the Community;
(d) increased dissemination and use of patent documentation as a source of technological information;
(e) public education;
(f) measures to prevent the abuse of intellectual property rights by rights-holders or the resort to practices which unreasonably restrain trade or adversely affect the international transfer of technology; and
(g) participation by Member States in international regimes for the protection of intellectual property rights."
ARTICLE X
Replace Article 45 with the following:
"Article 45
Human Resource Development
1. Without prejudice to any other provision of this Treaty relating to human resource development, the COTED shall, in collaboration with the Council for Human and Social Development (hereinafter referred to as "the COHSOD"), adopt measures to develop the Community's human resources which will, inter alia, support its thrust toward international competitiveness in the development, production and delivery of goods and services.
2. The measures referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be designed to address the economic, social and cultural aspects of human resource development, and shall include the following:
(a) development of programmes that will assist Community nationals in engendering the attitudes and acquiring the competence to function effectively;
(b) development of the skills and attitudes required to foster a culture of entrepreneurship;
(c) establishing and strengthening educational and training institutions for formal and informal modes of delivery and alternative modes for distance education;
(d) development of industry-oriented curricula designed to improve the competitiveness of regional industries; and
(e) promotion of multi-lingual skills at all levels for general education, with particular emphasis on the needs of the services sector."
ARTICLE XI
Replace Article 46 with the following:
"Article 46
Environment
1. The Community Industrial Policy shall be implemented in a manner that ensures the prudent and rational management of the resources of Member States. In particular, the Community shall promote measures to ensure:
(a) the preservation, protection and improvement of the quality of the environment;
(b) the protection of human, animal and plant life or health; and
(c) the adoption of initiatives at the Community level to address regional environmental problems.
2. In formulating measures in relation to the environment, the Community shall take account of:
(a) available and accessible scientific and technical data;
(b) environmental conditions in the Member States;
(c) the potential costs and benefits of action or inaction;
(d) the economic and social development of the Community as a whole and the balanced development of Member States;
(e) the precautionary principle and those principles relating to preventive action, rectification of environmental damage at source and the principle that the polluter pays; and
(f) the need to protect the Region from the harmful effects of hazardous materials transported, generated, disposed of or shipped through or within the Community.
3. In performing its functions under this Protocol, the COTED shall ensure a balance between the requirements of industrial development and the protection and preservation of the environment.
4. In giving effect to this Article the Community and Member States shall, within their respective spheres of competence, co-operate with third States and competent environmental organisations."
ARTICLE XII
Replace Article 47 with the following:
"Article 47
Standards and Technical Regulations
1. The COTED shall, in collaboration with competent agencies, develop a standardisation programme in furtherance of the objectives of this Protocol and consistent with the international obligations of Member States.
2. In implementing the programme, Member States shall not use standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures as barriers to trade.
3. The programme shall have the following objectives:
(a) trade facilitation;
(b) enhanced efficiency in the production and delivery of goods and services;
(c) improved quality of goods and services traded within the Community and with third States; and
(d) consumer and environmental protection.
4. The programme shall include the following elements:
(a) harmonisation of standards and technical regulations, and transparency in the development and promulgation of standards and technical regulations;
(b) recognition of conformity assessment procedures through mutual recognition agreements or other means;
(c) facilitation of standards infrastructure development at the national and regional levels;
(d) facilitation of metrology infrastructure development; and
(e) arrangements for the exchange of information with respect to development and implementation of standards and technical regulations among the parties to the Treaty.
5. The Community shall promote the establishment of a regional standardising body which shall, inter alia:
(a) facilitate implementation of the standardisation programme;
(b) assist Member States in understanding and fulfilling their obligations under this Treaty and other international agreements;
(c) promote the development of national standards bodies in Member States; and
(d) facilitate access to technical assistance available in Member States and in third States.
6. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions apply:
(a) "Technical Regulations" means regulations which lay down product characteristics or their related processes and production methods, including the applicable administrative provisions, with which compliance is mandatory. The term may also include or deal exclusively with terminology, symbols, packaging, marking or labelling requirements as they apply to a product, process or production method.
(b) "Standard" means a guideline approved by a recognised body, that provides, for common and repeated use, rules, guidelines or characteristics for products or related processes and production methods, with which compliance is not mandatory. The term may also include or deal exclusively with terminology, symbols, packaging, marking or labelling requirements as they apply to a product, process or production method.
(c) "Conformity Assessment Procedures" includes any procedure used, directly or indirectly, to determine that relevant requirements in technical regulations or standards are fulfilled."
ARTICLE XIII
Replace Article 50 with the following:
"Article 48
Community Investment Policy
The COTED in collaboration with the Council for Finance and Planning (hereinafter referred to as "the COFAP") and the COHSOD shall establish a Community Investment Policy which shall include sound national macro-economic policies, a harmonised system of investment incentives, stable industrial relations, appropriate financial institutions and arrangements, supportive legal and social infrastructure and modernisation of the role of public authorities."
ARTICLE XIV
Insert new Article to read as follows:
"Article 49
Harmonisation of Investment Incentives
1. Member States shall harmonise national incentives to investments in the industrial, agricultural and services sectors.
2. The COFAP shall, consistent with relevant international agreements, formulate proposals for the establishment of regimes for the granting of incentives to enterprises in the sectors mentioned in paragraph 1. In particular, such proposals shall accord support for industries considered to be of strategic interest to the Community.
3. In formulating the proposals mentioned in paragraph 2, the COFAP shall give due consideration to the peculiarities of the industries concerned and, without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, may provide for the following:
(a) national incentives to investment designed to promote sustainable, export-led industrial and service-oriented development;
(b) investment facilitation through the removal of bureaucratic impediments; and
(c) non-discrimination in the granting of incentives among Community nationals."
ARTICLE XV
Insert new Article to read as follows:
"Article 49a
Macro-Economic Policies
1. The COFAP shall formulate proposals and adopt appropriate measures to promote a sound macro-economic environment in Member States, consistent with their obligations under this Treaty and applicable international agreements.
2. The COFAP shall, in collaboration with other competent organs, promote economic development in Member States through the development and application of convergent macro-economic policies to ensure fiscal discipline, favourable balance-of-payments, stable currencies and moderate prices without prejudice to securing high levels of employment.
3. The COFAP shall collaborate with the Council for Foreign and Community Relations (hereinafter referred to as "the COFCOR") and the COTED in co-ordinating:
(a) the economic policies of Member States; and
(b) the positions and presentations of Member States in all international economic, financial and trade meetings at which they are represented.
4. In support of the development of macro-economic policies, the Community shall provide for harmonisation of the output of the statistical services of Member States."
ARTICLE XVI
Insert new Article to read as follows:
"Article 49b
Industrial Relations
The COHSOD shall, in consultation with the COTED, formulate proposals and adopt appropriate measures for the promotion of harmonious, stable and enlightened industrial relations in the Community. In formulating such measures and proposals, the COHSOD shall, inter alia, promote:
(a) the objectives of full employment, improved living and working conditions; adequate social security policies and programmes; tripartite consultations among governments, workers' and employers' organisations; and cross-border mobility of labour;
(b) the recognition of the principle of non-discriminatory treatment among Community workers in the pursuit of employment within the Community;
(c) the establishment and maintenance of effective mechanisms for the enhancement of industrial relations, particularly that of collective bargaining; and
(d) awareness among Community workers and employers that international competitiveness is essential for social and economic development of Member States and requires collaboration of employers and workers for increased production and productivity in Community enterprises."
ARTICLE XVII
Insert new Article to read as follows:
"Article 49c
Financial Infrastructure
The COFAP shall adopt proposals for the establishment of financial infrastructure supportive of investments in the Community. In particular, the COFAP shall assist Member States in establishing capital markets, financial institutions and appropriate financial instruments to facilitate capital investment on a sustainable basis."
ARTICLE XVIII
Insert new Article to read as follows:
"Article 49d
Legal Infrastructure
1. The Legal Affairs Committee shall co-operate with competent organs of the Community to advise Member States on the legal infrastructure required to promote investments in the Member States, including cross-border investments, bearing in mind the provisions of Article 49c.
2. Member States shall harmonise their laws and administrative practices in respect of, inter alia:
(a) companies or other legal entities;
(b) intellectual property rights;
(c) standards and technical regulations;
(d) labelling of food and drugs;
(e) sanitary and phytosanitary measures;
(f) restrictive business practices;
(g) dumping;
(h) subsidies and countervailing measures; and
(i) commercial arbitration."
ARTICLE XIX
Insert new Article to read as follows:
"Article 49e
Double Taxation Agreements
1. Member States shall conclude among themselves an agreement for the avoidance of double taxation in order to facilitate the free movement of capital in the Community.
2. Member States shall conclude their double taxation agreements with third States on the basis of mutually agreed principles which shall be determined by COFAP."
ARTICLE XX
Insert new Article to read as follows:
Article 50
Development of Social Infrastructure
1. In establishing its industrial policy, the Community shall promote appropriate measures for the establishment of adequate social infrastructure, the alleviation of poverty, and securing social stability in Member States.
2. Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the Community shall promote in Member States:
(a) the establishment and improvement of health, education, sports and social security institutions and facilities;
(b) conclusion of reciprocal social security agreements among Member States in order to facilitate the movement of skills; and
(c) training and retraining of workers, mobility of instructors and trainees, co-operation among educational and training institutions, and the development of distance education.
3. Member States shall engender an understanding and appreciation of the Community through effective public relations, educational, cultural and youth exchange programmes."
ARTICLE XXI
Insert new Article to read as follows:
"Article 50a
Role of Public Authorities
The COTED shall promote the modernisation of government bureaucracies by, inter alia:
(a) encouraging the development of closer contacts between public sector administrations, industry and other stakeholders to ensure that challenges presented by the global environment are understood and co-operative solutions developed;
(b) removing impediments and improving the regulatory framework for economic enterprises at national and regional levels;
(c) encouraging cost-effectiveness in the delivery of services to the public; and
(d) proposing adequate arrangements to address the changes in the business environment and future challenges to industry."
ARTICLE XXII
Insert new Article to read as follows:
"Article 50b
Special Provisions for Less Developed Countries
Where in this Protocol Member States or competent Organs are required to adopt measures for the achievement of the Community Industrial Policy, the special needs and circumstances of the Less Developed Countries shall be taken into account."
ARTICLE XXIII
Signature
This Protocol shall be open for signature by the Member States on the thirtieth day of June, 1998.
ARTICLE XXIV
Ratification
This Protocol shall be subject to ratification by signatory States in accordance with their respective constitutional procedures. Instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Secretariat which shall transmit certified copies to the Government of each Member State.
ARTICLE XXV
Accession
Any Member State other than a signatory State may accede to this Protocol.
An Instrument of Accession shall take effect on the date on which the Instrument is deposited with the Secretariat of the Community.
ARTICLE XXVI
Entry Into Force
This Protocol shall enter into force one month after the date on which the last Instrument of ratification is deposited with the Secretariat.
ARTICLE XXVII
Provisional Application
1. A Member State may, upon the signing of this Protocol or at any later date before it enters into force, declare its intention to apply it provisionally.
2. Upon such declaration, the provisions of this Protocol shall be applied provisionally pending its entry into force in accordance with Article XXVI.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned duly authorised in that behalf by their respective Governments have executed this Protocol.
DONE at Castries, Saint Lucia on the thirtieth day of June 1998. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

