
 Protocol to the Convention Establishing The Sustainable Tourism Zone Of The Caribbean   
     Filename: 2004-Protocol-2001-CaribbeanSustainableTourism.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.acs-aec.org/Documents/Misc/Protocol%20to%20the%20Convention%20Establi…     
    ﻿ Protocol To The Convention Establishing The Sustainable Tourism Zone Of The Caribbean
 Source: http://www.acs-aec.org/Documents/Misc/Protocol%20to%20the%20Convention%2..., downloaded 20070223
 The Parties,
 Affirming the importance of tourism for national economic and social development of political entities of the Caribbean Region;
 Convinced that the sustainability of the tourist industry requires it to be defined in an integrated, coordinated and comprehensive manner;
 Considering that the Convention Establishing the Sustainable Tourism Zone of the Caribbean would benefit from the clarification of certain terms and procedures;
 Desiring to provide greater specificity in the provisions of the Convention Establishing the Sustainable Tourism Zone of the Caribbean;
 AGREE as follows:
 Article 1
 Use of Terms
 In the Convention Establishing the Sustainable Tourism Zone of the Caribbean, unless the context otherwise requires;
 "Caribbean Region" or any similar geographic indication means the land territory and marine areas over which the Member States and Associate Members of the Association of Caribbean States established by the Convention Establishing the Association of Caribbean States (1994) exercise sovereignty, sovereign rights and jurisdiction, as the case may be, in accordance with international law;
 "Convention" means the Convention Establishing the Sustainable Tourism Zone of the Caribbean;
 "destination" means a specified geographic area of a Contracting Party or the entire country or territory of a Contracting Party, as the case may be".
 Article 2
 Scope of Application
 Number the existing provision of Article 2 of the Convention as paragraph 1 and insert new paragraph 2 to read as follows:
 "2. For the purposes of this Convention "the basin of the Caribbean Sea" means "the Caribbean Region"."
 Article 3
 Obligations of Parties
 Number the existing provisions of Article 3 of the Convention as paragraph 1 and insert new paragraph 2 to read as follows:
 "2. Nothing in this Article may be construed as entitling the ACS Special Committee on Transport to negotiate or determine international civil aviation route traffic rights on behalf of a Party."
 Article 4
 Functions of the Special Committee on Sustainable Tourism
 (1) Insert at the beginning of Article 4 of the Convention a new paragraph to read as follows:
 "The Committee on Sustainable Tourism established under Agreement 13/96 of the Ministerial Council, adopted at the Second Ordinary Meeting held in Havana, Cuba, in December 1996 (and renamed by Agreement 1/00, the Special Committee on Sustainable Tourism), shall be the principal agent for the development and implementation of this Convention".
 (2) Modify Article 4 paragraph E of the Convention to read as follows:
 E."Recommend a mechanism for Parties to receive assistance in applying and executing strategies and other decisions of the Ministerial Council relating to the Zone bearing in mind regional initiatives";
 (3) Modify the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Convention to read as follows:
 "In order to carry out the functions assigned, the Special Committee on Sustainable Tourism shall establish a panel of technicians and experts from the Contracting Parties to the Convention, appointed on the basis of equitable geographical and linguistic distribution among such Parties, whose formation and duties will be defined in the Rules Governing the Identification, Approval and Categorisation of Destinations that Constitute the Sustainable Tourism Zone of the Caribbean".
 Article 5
 Amendments
 In Article 12 of the Convention, the word "Signatories" shall be replaced by the words "Contracting Parties".
 Article 6
 Relationship between the Convention and the Protocol
 This Protocol shall be read as one with the Convention. The specific provisions of this Protocol shall be considered modifications to the Convention.
 Article 7
 Signature
 This Protocol shall be open for signature by any State, Country or Territory referred to in Article 4 of the Convention Establishing the Association of Caribbean States that has signed ratified or adhered to said Convention.
 Article 8
 Entry into Force
 1. This Protocol shall enter into force upon signature by fifteen Parties to the Convention.
 2. For any State, Country or Territory adhering to this Protocol after it has entered into force, the Protocol shall enter into force for that State, Country or Territory, on the date that the Convention enters into force for that State, Country or Territory.
 Done in Panama City, Panama, this 12th day of February 2004. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

