
 Cooperative agreement among the United States, Canada and Mexico supplementary to the North American plant protection agreement   
     Filename: 2004-SupplementaryAgreement-1976-InternationalPlantProtectionConvention-RegionalNorthAmerica.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.nappo.org/OfficialDoc/coop-agr_e.htm     
    ﻿Cooperative Agreement Supplementary To The North American Plant Protection Agreement
Source: http://www.nappo.org/OfficialDoc/coop-agr_e.htm
Cooperative agreement supplementary to the North American Plant Protection Agreement among the Secretary of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Development, Fish and Food of the United Mexican States, through its National Service for Agri-Food Health, Safety and Quality, Plant Health Directorate; the Canadian Food Inspection Agency, through its Plant Health Division; and the Department of Agriculture of the United States of America, through its Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine, hereinafter referred to as "the parties."
The United States in accordance with the objectives of the Plant Protection Act of the United States of America, Mexico, in accordance with the pest-prevention objectives set forth in the Plant Health Law of the United Mexican States; and Canada, in accordance with the objectives of the Plant Protection Act of Canada:
Mindful of the bases for cooperation in plant protection and disease prevention in plant resources developed under the North American Plant Protection Agreement of October 1976;
Considering the provisions of Article VIII of the International Plant Protection Convention (IPPC) of 1951, and as subsequently amended, whereby the contracting governments agree to establish regional plant protection organizations;
Acknowledging their responsibility to strengthen plant protection through North American cooperation in the control of pests of plants and plant products and in preventing their international spread, and especially their introduction into endangered areas;
Recognizing the need for the development of regional and international phytosanitary standards aimed at protecting their respective countries from the introduction and/or spread of regulated pests;
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
Article 1 Objective:
To encourage cooperative efforts among the member countries to prevent the entry, establishment and spread of quarantine pests and to limit the economic impact of regulated non-quarantine pests while facilitating international trade in plants, plant products and other regulated articles; and to encourage and participate in similar hemispheric and global cooperative efforts.
Specific functions and organizational structure will be described in a Constitution and Bylaws for the Organization.
Article 2 Finance and Administration:
In order to carry out the activities under this Agreement, each of the parties will endeavor to provide funds, facilities and/or services equivalent to at least $120,000 U.S. annually, to be expended by the Executive Director in accordance with an annual budget adopted by the Executive Committee. When non-monetary contributions are provided, prior agreement of the Executive Committee is required.
No person or organization participating in NAPPO activities shall benefit financially or otherwise from activities conducted pursuant to this agreement unless there is prior approval of the Executive Committee.
The NAPPO fiscal year for financial and administrative purposes begins on September 1 of a given year and ends on August 31 of the following year.
Article 3 Program Results:
Program results and information generated under this Agreement may be published by the parties and by NAPPO, only after consideration and approval of the parties.
Article 4 Participants:
The parties may invite other government institutions, scientific, academic, or business communities to participate in cooperative activities.
Article 5 Entry into Force:
This Agreement shall enter into force upon signature and shall remain in force indefinitely, but may be terminated by the written request of any party submitted to the other parties at least 30 days prior to the effective date of termination.
Article 6 Amendment:
The parties may amend this Agreement by mutual consent.
Done at Vancouver, Canada this 17th day of October, 2004
Jorge Hernandez Baeza For the Secretary of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Development, Fish and Food of the United Mexican States
Richard Dunkle For the Department of Agriculture of the United States of America, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine
Gary Koivisto For the Canadian Food Inspection Agency, Plant Health Division 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

