
 Supplementary Protocol Regarding The Entry Into Force Of The 1944 Protocol To The 1937 International Agreement For The Regulation Of Whaling   
     Filename: 1945-SupplementaryProtocol-1937-Whaling.EN.txt 
 Source: United States Congress, Senate Executive Documents and Reports, Exec.Doc.J, 79-1 of November 23, 1945, p. 2-3.     
    ﻿Supplementary Protocol Regarding The Entry Into Force Of The 1944 Protocol To The 1937 International Agreement For The Regulation Of Whaling 
Source: United States Congress, Senate Executive Documents and Reports, Exec.Doc.J, 79-1 of November 23, 1945, p. 2-3.
The Governments of the United States of America, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Canada, Mexico, New Zealand, and Norway,
Having ratified or acceded to the Protocol signed in London on the 7th February, 1944, amending the International Agreement for the Regulation of Whaling, signed in London on the 8th June, 1937, as amended by the Protocol of the 24th June, 1938;
Considering that it is provided under Article 7 that the said Protocol of the 7th February, 1944 shall come into force as soon as ratification or accessions have been deposited on behalf of all the Governments referred to in paragraph (i) of that Article;
Considering further that ratifications or accessions have been deposited on behalf of all the said Governments with the exception of the Government of Eire; and
Desiring that the said Protocol shall be brought into force without awaiting the accession of the Government of Eire;
Have decided to conclude a Supplementary Protocol for this purpose and have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (i) and (ii) of Article 7 of the Protocol on the Regulation of Whaling signed in London on the 7th February, 1944, the said Protocol shall, on the signature of the present Supplementary Protocol, be deemed to enter into force with respect to States signing the present Protocol, accept that the said Protocol shall come into force with respect to any State signing the present Protocol subject to ratification upon receipt of notice of ratification by the Government of the United Kingdom.
In witness whereof, the Undersigned, duly authorized by there respective Governments have signed the present Supplementary Protocol.
Done in London this 5th day of October, 1945, in a single copy which shall be deposited in the archives of the Government of the United Kingdom and of which certified copies shall be transmitted to all the signatory Governments.
For the Government of the United States of America: JOHN G. WINANT. Subject to ratification.
For the Government of Canada: FREDERIC HUDD
For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: O. G. SARGENT.
For the Government of the Republic of Mexico: ALFONSO DE ROSENZWEIQ DIAZ. 
For the Government of New Zealand: R. M. CAMPBELL.
For the Government of Norway: ERIK COLBAN. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

