
 Amendment Of Articles 17 and 18 To The Convention Relating To The Creation Of The Gambia River Basin Development Organization   
     Filename: 1981-AmendmentRes6-1978-GambiaRiverBasinDevelopmentOrganization.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.fao.org/docrep/W7414B/w7414b0c.htm     
    ﻿Amendment Of Articles 17 and 18 To The Convention Relating To The Creation Of The Gambia River Basin Development Organization
Source: http://faolex.fao.org/docs/texts/gam15879.doc, http://www.fao.org/docrep/W7414B/w7414b0c.htm 
Articles 17 and 18 were amended by Resolution 6/CEG/CG of 6 June 1981 of the Conference of Heads of State and Government. 
Original text:
Article 17
The High Commissioner shall be assisted by directors. The High Commissioner may delegate authority to the Directors if he judges it necessary for the smooth functioning of the Organisation, however, he shall remain ultimately responsible.
Article 18
The Directors shall be appointed by the Council of Ministers on the recommendation of the High Commissioner. Their functions shall be terminated in like manner.
The Directors shall assist and support the High Commissioner in his functions. 
They shall assume amongst other things the following: 
- the complete briefing of the High Commissioner on the running of the Services and in particular on matters relating to administrative and financial matters.
- the programming, follow-up and execution of programmes and projects formulated in relation to the development of the Gambia River Basin submitted to them by the High Commissioner.
Amended text:
Article 17
The High Commissioner shall be seconded by a Secretary General, by Directors and Advisers. The High Commissioner may delegate authority to the Secretary General and to the Directors if he judges it necessary for the smooth functioning of the Organisation, however, he shall remain ultimately responsible.
Article 18
(As amended by resolution 6/CEG/CG of 6 June 1981 of the Conference of Heads of State and Government)
The Secretary General, Directors and Advisers shall be appointed by the Council of Ministers on the recommendation of the High Commissioner. Their functions shall be terminated in like manner.
The Secretary General, who is senior in rank to the Directors, shall act for the High Commissioner in the event of absence or indisposibility.
The Secretary General and Directors, aside from their attributions, shall assume the following functions:
- the complete briefing of the High Commissioner on the running of the services;
- the programming, follow-up and execution of programmes and projects formulated in relation to the development of the Gambia River Basin submitted to them by the High Commissioner. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

