
 Protocol of Application to the Convention for Regulating the Police of the North Sea Fisheries   
     Filename: 1884-Protocol-1882-PoliceNorthSeasFishery.EN.txt 
 Source: Barclay, Thomas, Sir. Problems of international practice and diplomacy : with special reference to the Hague conferences and conventions and other general international agreements. Boston: Boston Book Company, 1907, 301ff.     
    ﻿Protocol of Application to the Convention Between Her Majesty, The German Emperor, King Of Prussia, The King Of The Belgians, The King Of Denmark, The President Of The French Republic, And The King Of The Netherlands, For Regulating The Police Of The North Sea Fisheries
Source: Barclay, Thomas, Sir. Problems of international practice and diplomacy : with special reference to the Hague conferences and conventions and other general international agreements. Boston: Boston Book Company, 1907, 301ff.
(Translation.)
In conformity with the agreement arrived at between their respective Governments, the Undersigned, Envoys Extraordinary and Ministers Plenipotentiary of Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Empress of India, His Majesty the German Emperor, King of Prussia, His Majesty the King of the Belgians, and the French Republic, met together this day at the Office of the Minister for Foreign Affairs at the Hague, in order to proceed, with the Undersigned, Minister for Foreign Affairs of His Majesty the King of the Netherlands, to the examination and deposit of the instruments of ratification of the Convention signed at the Hague the sixth May, one thousand eight hundred and eighty-two, having for its object the regulation of the police of the fisheries in the North Sea, outside territorial waters.
The instruments of ratification having been produced, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of His Majesty the King of the Netherlands having produced the instrument of ratification of His Majesty the King of Denmark, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs at Copenhagen had forwarded to him in a note dated the eleventh June, one thousand eight hundred and eighty-three, as well as the instrument of ratification signed by His Majesty the King of the Netherlands, and the said instruments having been examined and found in good and due form, the documents were delivered to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of His Majesty the King of the Netherlands, in order that they might remain deposited in the archives of the Department for Foreign Affairs at the Hague, such deposit being in place of an exchange of the said instruments.
The Undersigned, Envoys Extraordinary and Ministers Plenipotentiary, duly authorised by their respective Governments, and the Undersigned, Minister for Foreign Affairs of His Majesty the King of the Netherlands, equally authorised by His Majesty the King of the Netherlands and by the Government of His Majesty the King of Denmark, have, moreover, mutually agreed that the Convention shall be put into operation two months after the date of the present Protocol.
In witness whereof the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the same, and have affixed thereto the seal of their arms.
Done at the Hague, the fifteenth day of March in the year of grace one thousand eight hundred and eighty-four, in six copies, of which one shall he delivered to each of the six Governments.
[SIGNATURES.]
(Translation.)
The Undersigned, Envoys Extraordinary and Ministers Plenipotentiary of His Majesty the German Emperor, King of Prussia, His Majesty the King of the Belgians, the French Republic, and Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Empress of India, and the Undersigned, Minister for Foreign Affairs of His Majesty the King of the Netherlands, who is also authorised to represent the Government of the King of Denmark on this occasion, having met together at the Office of the Minister for Foreign Affairs at the Hague on the 15th March, 1884, for the purpose of depositing the instruments of ratification of the Convention signed at the Hague the 6th May, 1882, having for its object the regulation of the police of the fisheries in the North Sea outside territorial waters, and in order to sign the Protocol relative to the said deposition, the Envoy of France stated that while adhering to the time agreed upon for putting the Convention into operation the Government of the Republic maintained the reserve contained in Article 24 of the Law of the 15th January, 1884, thus worded:
"The carrying into effect of the present Law shall be provisionally suspended up to the time on which the other Signatory Powers of the Convention of the 6th May, 1882, shall have promulgated the penalties stipulated in Article XXXV of the Convention.
The other Undersigned have stated to him that they take note of this declaration.
[SIGNATURES.] 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

