
 Amendments To The Convention On Future Multilateral Cooperation In Northeast Atlantic Fisheries (Amendments to Preamble, Article 1, 2 and 4)   
     Filename: 2006-Amendment-1980-NortheastAtlanticFisheries.EN.txt 
 Source: http://lovdata.no/cgi-wift/udoffles?doc=tra-20060811-037.txt&     
    ﻿Amendments To The Convention On Future Multilateral Cooperation In Northeast Atlantic Fisheries
Source: footnotes to http://www.neafc.org/about/docs/new_convention.pdf, downloaded 20070823
Proposed amendments to the NEAFC convention
The amendments adopted by Postal Vote of the Contracting Parties in August 2006 were submitted to the Secretary of the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission by the government of Iceland in November, 2005. The proposed amendments read as follows;
Preamble:
The Contracting Parties,
Noting that the coastal states of the North-East Atlantic have, in accordance with relevant principles of international law, extended their jurisdiction over the living resources of their adjacent waters to limits of up to two hundred nautical miles from the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea is measured, and exercise within these areas sovereign rights for the purpose of exploring and exploiting, conserving and managing these resources,
Recognising the relevant provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982; the Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, 1995, the Agreement to Promote Compliance with International Conservation and Management Measures by Fishing Vessels on the High Seas, 1993 and taking into account the Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries adopted by the 28th Session of the Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations in October 1995.
Desiring to promote the long term conservation and optimum utilisation of the fishery resources of the North-East Atlantic area, and in doing so to safeguard the marine ecosystems in which the resources occur, and accordingly to encourage international cooperation and consultation with respect to these resources.
ARTICLE 1
For the purpose of this Convention the following definitions apply:
(a) "The Convention Area" means the areas (see map in Annex 7)
(1) within those parts of the Atlantic and Arctic Oceans and their dependent seas which lie north of 36* north latitude and between 42* west longitude and 51* east longitude, but excluding:
(i) the Baltic Sea and the Belts lying to the south and east of lines drawn from Hasenøre Head to Gniben Point, from Korshage to Spodsbjerg and from Gilbjerg Head to the Kullen. and
(ii) the Mediterranean Sea and its dependent seas as . far as the point of intersection of the parallel of 36* latitude and the meridian of 5*36' west longitude
(2) within that part of the Atlantic Ocean north of 59* north latitude and between 44* west longitude and 42* west longitude.
(b) "Fishery resources" means resources of fish, molluscs, crustaceans and including sedentary species, excluding, in so far as they are dealt with by other international agreements, highly migratory species listed in Annex I of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982, and anadromous stocks;
(c) "Living marine resources" means all living components of marine ecosystems;
(d) "Marine biological diversity" means the variability among marine living organisms and the ecological complexes of which they are part; this includes diversity within species, between species and of ecosystems.
ARTICLE 2
The objective of this Convention is to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum utilisation of the fishery resources in the Convention Area, providing sustainable economic, environmental and social benefits.
ARTICLE 4
1. The Commission shall perform its functions in order to fulfil the objective set out in Article 2,
2. When making recommendations in accordance with Article 5 or 6 of this Convention the Commission shall in particular:
a) ensure that such recommendations are based on the best scientific evidence available;
b) apply the precautionary approach;
c) take due account of the impact of fisheries on other species and marine ecosystems, and in doing so adopt, where necessary, conservation and management measures that address the need to minimise harmful impacts on living marine resources and marine ecosystems; and
d) take due account of the need to conserve marine biological diversity.
3. The Commission shall provide a forum for consultation and exchange of information on the state of the fishery resources in the Convention Area and on the management policies, including examination of the overall effects of such policies on the fishery resources and, as appropriate, other living marine resources and marine ecosystems.
Articles 5 and 6
In Articles 5, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 15, 18 and 20 "fisheries jurisdiction" is replaced by "jurisdiction". 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

