
 Amendments to Annexes V and VII to the Protocol On Persistent Organic Pollutants To The Convention On Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution   
     Filename: 2009-AmendmentsB-1998-ProtocolPersistentOrganicPollutants-1979-EuropeanTransboundaryAirPollution.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.unece.org/env/documents/2009/EB/eb/EB%20Decisions/Decision%202009%203…     
    ﻿Amendment of annexes V and VII to the 1998 Protocol on Persistent Organic Pollutants
Source: http://www.unece.org/env/documents/2009/EB/eb/EB%20Decisions/Decision%20..., downloaded 20110505
The Parties to the 1998 Protocol on Persistent Organic Pollutants meeting within the twenty-seventh session of the Executive Body,
Decide to amend the 1998 Protocol on Persistent Organic Pollutants ("the Protocol") to the Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution as follows:
ARTICLE 1: AMENDMENT
A. Annex V
1. Paragraph 1 of annex V to the Protocol shall be replaced by the following:
"1. The purpose of this annex is to provide the Parties to the Convention with guidance in identifying best available techniques to allow them to meet the obligations in article 3, paragraph 5, of the Protocol. Further description of, and guidance regarding, such best available techniques is provided in a guidance document adopted by the Parties at a session of the Executive Body and may be updated as necessary by a consensus of the Parties meeting within the Executive Body."
2. Paragraph 4 of annex V to the Protocol shall be replaced by the following:
"4. Experience with new plants incorporating low-emission techniques, as well as with retrofitting of existing plants, is continuously growing. The regular elaboration and amendment of the guidance document referred to in paragraph 1 above will therefore be necessary. Best available techniques (BAT) identified for new plants can usually be applied to existing plants provided there is an adequate transition period and they are adapted."
3. Paragraph 5 of annex V to the Protocol shall be replaced by the following:
"5. The guidance document referred to in paragraph 1 above lists a number of control measures which span a range of costs and efficiencies. The choice of measures for any particular case will depend on a number of factors, including economic circumstances, technological infrastructure and capacity, and any existing air pollution control measures."
4. Parts III, IV and V of annex V are deleted.
B. Annex VII
Annex VII to the Protocol is deleted.
ARTICLE 2: ENTRY INTO FORCE
In accordance with article 14(4) of the Protocol, this Amendment shall become effective for those Parties which have not submitted a notification to the Depositary in accordance with article 14(5) of the Protocol on the expiry of ninety days from the date of its communication to all Parties by the Executive Secretary of the Commission. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

