
 Amendments To The Agreement On The International Dolphin Conservation Program, (amending Annex IV (III) 4, Annex IV (I) 8, Annex IV (II) 1, adopted at Meeting #7)   
     Filename: 2002A-Amendments-1998-DolphinConservation.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.iattc.org/PDFFiles2/AIDCP-amendments-Oct-2009.pdf     
    ﻿ Amendments To The Agreement On The International Dolphin Conservation Program, (amending Annex IV (III) 4, Annex IV (I) 8, Annex IV (II) 1, adopted at Meeting #7)
 Source: http://www.iattc.org/PDFFiles2/AIDCP-amendments-Oct-2009.pdf, downloaded 20120420
 The following amendments were adopted on 24 June 2002 at the 7th meeting of the Parties.
 Annex IV (III) 4:
 NEW - added at end of paragraph 4:
 A notification by a Party that the possible infraction is being investigated shall be considered to be an objection for the purposes of this paragraph, provided that the notification is received by the Secretariat prior to the expiration of the relevant 6 or 12 month period.
 In such cases, a Party will be deemed to have provided its concurrence to the infraction if that Party does not conclude its investigation and report the final results to the IRP within a period of two years from the date on which the possible infraction was originally referred to the Party, except as provided below.
 If it is not possible for the Party in question to complete the investigation within this two-year period, the Party shall provide an update to the IRP of the status of the investigation and its estimated date of completion. The Party shall provide such a report at each subsequent meeting of the IRP until the case is resolved. If a report is not made, that Party will be deemed to have concurred with the possible infraction. The Secretariat shall inform the relevant Party about the cases for which the deadline is about to lapse and for which the information needs to be updated.
 Annex IV (III) 4:
 Original language:
 … during that year or the previous year:
 Amended language:
 … during that year or the previous two years:
 Annex IV (I) 8:
 Original language:
 … during the previous year, it has committed ...
 Amended language:
 … during the previous two years, it has committed …..
 Annex IV (II) 1:
 Discrepancy between English and Spanish texts corrected: Spanish text amended, English unchanged
 Annex IV (II) 1:
 NEW - Two sentences added to paragraph 1:
 … and may not set on dolphins for the remainder of that year. Notwithstanding the provision in Annex VII, paragraph 9, regarding decision making by the IRP, a request by a Party, on behalf of any of its vessels, for an exemption due to force majeure or extraordinary circumstances, shall be considered to be agreed by the IRP unless a majority of the government members of the IRP supports any objection, made formally and with cause by any other Party, to any such request. All requests for exemption must be sent to the Secretariat by April 1, and any formal objections must be sent to the Secretariat by April 20. Any vessel that loses its DML ... 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

