
 Amendments To The Agreement On The International Dolphin Conservation Program, (amending Annex IV (I), adopted at Meeting #9)   
     Filename: 2003A-Amendments-1998-DolphinConservation.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.iattc.org/PDFFiles2/AIDCP-amendments-Oct-2009.pdf     
    ﻿ Amendments to Annex IV (I) of the Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Program
 Source: http://www.iattc.org/PDFFiles2/AIDCP-amendments-Oct-2009.pdf, downloaded 20120420
 The following amendments were adopted on 23 June 2003 at the 9th meeting of the Parties.
 Annex IV (I):
 Original language:
 1. Each Party shall provide to the Meeting of the Parties, through the Director, prior to October 1 of each year, a list of vessels under its jurisdiction of carrying capacity greater than 363 metric tons (400 short tons) that have requested a full-year DML for the following year, indicating those other vessels that are likely to be operating in the Agreement Area in the following year, and vessels that have requested a second-semester DML for the following year.
 2. The IRP shall, by November 1 of each year, or later if agreed by the IRP, provide to the Meeting of the Parties a list of qualified applicant vessels eligible to receive a DML. For purposes of this Agreement, a vessel shall be considered qualified if:
 Amended language:
 1. a. Each Party shall provide to the other Parties, through the Director, prior to October 1 of each year, a list of vessels under its jurisdiction of carrying capacity greater than 363 metric tons (400 short tons) that have requested a full-year DML for the following year, indicating those other vessels that are likely to be operating in the Agreement Area in the following year.
 b. Each Party shall provide to the other Parties, through the Director, prior to April 1 of each year, a list of vessels under its jurisdiction of carrying capacity greater than 363 metric tons (400 short tons) that have requested a second-semester DML for that same year.
 8. The IRP shall, by November 1 of each year, or later if agreed by the IRP, provide to the Parties a list of qualified applicant vessels eligible to receive a full-year DML for the following year. For second-semester DMLs, the IRP shall, by May 1 of each year, or later if agreed by the IRP, provide to the Parties a list of qualified applicant vessels eligible to receive a second-semester DML for that same year.
 9. For purposes of this Agreement, a vessel shall be considered qualified if: 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

