
 Amendments To The Agreement On The International Dolphin Conservation Program, (amending Annex IV (I), Annex IV (II), Annex VII, adopted at Meeting #14)   
     Filename: 2005-Amendments-1998-DolphinConservation.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.iattc.org/PDFFiles2/AIDCP-amendments-Oct-2009.pdf     
    ﻿ Amendments to Annex IV (I), Annex IV (II), and Annex VII of the Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Program
 Source: http://www.iattc.org/PDFFiles2/AIDCP-amendments-Oct-2009.pdf, downloaded 20120420
 The following amendments were adopted on 20 October 2005 at the 14th meeting of the Parties.
 Annex IV (I):
 NEW - added at end of paragraph 8 (formerly 7):
 No vessel which has been assigned a DML for any given year from the RDA may also receive a full-year or second-semester DML for that same year, and no vessel which has received a full-year or second-semester DML for any given year may also receive a DML from the RDA for that same year.
 Annex IV (II):
 Original language:
 1. Any vessel which is assigned a full-year DML and does not set on dolphins prior to April 1 of that year, or which is assigned a second-semester DML and does not set on dolphins by October 1 of that year, or which is assigned a per-trip DML from the RDA and does not set on dolphins during that trip, unless as a result of force majeure or extraordinary circumstances, as agreed by the IRP, shall lose its DML and may not set on dolphins for the remainder of that year.
 Amended language:
 1. Any vessel which is assigned:
 (a) a full-year DML and does not set on dolphins prior to April 1 of that year; or
 (b) a second-semester DML and does not set on dolphins by October 1 of that year; or
 (c) a per-trip DML from the RDA and does not set on dolphins during that trip; or
 (d) a DML from the RDA, which is not a per-trip DML, and does not set on dolphins by October 1 of that year or within 30 days of the DML assignment, whichever is later,
 shall lose its DML and may not set on dolphins for the remainder of that year, unless there are reasons of force majeure or extraordinary circumstances, as agreed by the IRP.
 Annex IV (II):
 NEW:
 2. A Party may, by so advising the Director in writing, renounce by April 1 of any year a full-year DML assigned to any of its vessels, or renounce by October 1 of any year a second-semester DML assigned to any of its vessels. Any vessel which is the subject of such a renunciation may not set on dolphins for the remainder of that year, but shall not be considered to have lost a DML for the purposes of paragraph 1 of this section.
 Annex VII:
 Original language:
 5. The IRP shall hold at least three meetings a year, …
 Amended language:
 5. The IRP shall hold at least two meetings a year, … 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

