
 Amendments To The Agreement On The International Dolphin Conservation Program, (amending Annex IV (I), adopted at Meeting #15)   
     Filename: 2006-Amendments-1998-DolphinConservation.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.iattc.org/PDFFiles2/AIDCP-amendments-Oct-2009.pdf     
    ﻿ Amendment to Annex IV (I) of the Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Program
 Source: http://www.iattc.org/PDFFiles2/AIDCP-amendments-Oct-2009.pdf, downloaded 20120420
 The following amendment was adopted on 21 June 2006 at the 15th meeting of the Parties.
 Annex IV (I):
 Original language:
 8. … Any Party may request that the Director assign DMLs from such RDA to vessels fishing under its jurisdiction which do not normally fish for tuna in the Agreement Area but which may, from time to time, desire to participate in the fishery in the Agreement Area on a limited basis, provided that such vessels and their captains and crews meet the operational and training requirements set forth in Annex VIII of this Agreement and that the requirements set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4, of this Section are met. …
 Amended language:
 8. … Any Party may request that the Director assign DMLs from such RDA to vessels fishing under its jurisdiction which do not normally fish for tuna in the Agreement Area but which may, from time to time, desire to participate in the fishery in the Agreement Area on a limited basis, or to vessels which are not eligible to receive a DML at the time of the deadline for requests for full-year DMLs, but become eligible subsequently and desire to participate in the fishery during the year for which the DML from the RDA is requested. DMLs from the RDA may be assigned only if the operational and training requirements set forth in Annex VIII of this Agreement and the requirements set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Section are met. … 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

