
 Amendment to the Minimum Mesh Regulation for Haddock Fishery in sub-area 5 of the area covered by The International Convention For The Northwest Atlantic Fisheries   
     Filename: 1953-Amendment-1952-MeshRegulation-1949-NorthwestAtlanticFisheries.EN.txt 
 Source: http://treaties.un.org/doc/Publication/UNTS/Volume%20200/v200.pdf     
    ﻿Amendment to the Minimum Mesh Regulation for Haddock Fishery in Sub-Area 5 of the Area Covered by the International Convention for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries
Source: http://treaties.un.org/doc/Publication/UNTS/Volume%20200/v200.pdf, p. 318, downloaded 20120118
Amendment to the Minimum Mesh Regulation for Haddock Fishery in Sub-Area 5 of the Area Covered by the Above-Mentioned Convention. Proposed by the International Commission for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries and Transmitted to the Government of the United States of America On 11 June 1953
That the Contracting Governments take appropriate action to prohibit the taking of haddock (Melanogrammus aeglefinus) in Sub-area 5 by persons under their jurisdiction with a trawl net having a mesh size less than four and one-half inches when measured wet after use, or having a mesh size when measured dry before use less than the equivalent of four and one-half inches wet measurement after use. For the purposes of this proposal, the four and one-half inch mesh size when measured wet after use shall be taken to be:
In the cod end of the net, the average of the measurements of each mesh in any series of fifty consecutive meshes running parallel to the long axis of the cod end and beginning at the after end of the cod end, such series to be at least ten meshes from the lacings and to be measured with a flat, wedge-shaped gauge having a taper of two inches in nine inches and a thickness of three thirty-seconds of an inch, inserted into the meshes under a pressure of not less than ten nor more than fifteen pounds, and:
In any part of the net other than the cod end, the average of the measurements of each mesh in any series of twenty consecutive meshes, such series to be at least ten meshes from the lacings and to be measured with a flat, wedge-shaped gauge having a taper of two inches in nine inches and a thickness of three thirty-seconds of an inch, inserted into the meshes under a pressure of not less than ten nor more than fifteen pounds. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

