
 Amendments To The International Convention On Standards Of Training, Certification And Watchkeeping For Seafarers - STCW Code   
     Filename: 2006-AmendmentsCode-1978-StandardsSeafarers.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.dft.gov.uk/mca/msc.209_81_-3.pdf     
    ﻿Adoption Of Amendments To The Seafarers' Training, Certification And Watchkeeping Code (STCW Code)
Source: http://www.dft.gov.uk/mca/msc.209_81_-3.pdf, downloaded 20120215
RESOLUTION MSC.209(81) (adopted on 18 May 2006)
THE MARITIME SAFETY COMMITTEE,
RECALLING Article 28(b) of the Convention on the International Maritime Organization concerning the functions of the Committee,
RECALLING FURTHER Article XII and regulation I/1.2.3 of the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers (STCW), 1978, hereinafter referred to as "the Convention", concerning the procedures for amending Part A of the Seafarers' Training, Certification and Watchkeeping (STCW) Code,
HAVING CONSIDERED, at its eighty-first session, amendments to Part A of the STCW Code, proposed and circulated in accordance with article XII(1)(a)(i) of the Convention,
1. ADOPTS, in accordance with article XII(1)(a)(iv) of the Convention, amendments to the STCW Code, the text of which is set out in the Annex to the present resolution;
2. DETERMINES, in accordance with article XII(1)(a)(vii)(2) of the Convention, that the said amendments to the STCW Code shall be deemed to have been accepted on 1 July 2007, unless, prior to that date, more than one third of Parties or Parties the combined merchant fleets of which constitute not less than 50% of the gross tonnage of the world's merchant shipping of ships of 100 gross tonnage or more, have notified their objections to the amendments;
3. INVITES Parties to the Convention to note that, in accordance with article XII(1)(a)(ix) of the Convention, the annexed amendments to the STCW Code shall enter into force on 1 January 2008 upon their acceptance in accordance with paragraph 2 above;
4. REQUESTS the Secretary-General, in conformity with article XII(1)(a)(v) of the Convention, to transmit certified copies of the present resolution and the text of the amendments contained in the Annex to all Parties to the Convention;
5. FURTHER REQUESTS the Secretary-General to transmit copies of this resolution and its Annex to Members of the Organization, which are not Parties to the Convention.
" The following new section A-VI/5 and table are inserted after the existing table VI/4-2:
"Section A-VI/5
Mandatory minimum requirements for the issue of certificates of proficiency for ship security officers
Standard of competence
1. Every candidate for a certificate of proficiency as a ship security officer shall be required to demonstrate competence to undertake the tasks, duties and responsibilities listed in column 1 of table A-VI/5.
2. The level of knowledge of the subjects listed in column 2 of table A-VI/5 shall be sufficient to enable the candidate to act as the designated ship security officer.
3. Training and experience to achieve the necessary level of theoretical knowledge, understanding and proficiency shall take into account the guidance in section B-VI/5 of this Code.
4. Every candidate for certification shall be required to provide evidence of having achieved the required standard of competence in accordance with the methods for demonstrating competence and the criteria for evaluating competence tabulated in columns 3 and 4 of table A-VI/5.
Transitional provisions
5. Determining professional competence for existing ship security officers who hold or can document qualifications before the entry into force of this regulation shall be established by:
approved seagoing service as a ship security officer, for a period of at least six months in total during the preceding three years; or
.2 having performed security functions considered to be equivalent to the seagoing service required in paragraph 5.1; or
.3 passing an approved test; or
.4 successfully completing approved training.
6. Every person who has been found competent under section A-VI/5, paragraph 5, shall be issued a certificate of proficiency as a ship security officer.
Table A-VI/5 Specifications of minimum standards of proficiency for ship security officers
" 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

