
 Amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9 and 10 of the Statutes Of The Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission   
     Filename: 1987-Amendments-1960-IntergovernmentalOceanographicCommission.EN.txt 
 Source: http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0007/000753/075329eo.pdf     
    ﻿Amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9 and 10 of the Statutes Of The Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission
Source: http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0007/000753/075329eo.pdf, downloaded 20120215
The General Conference,
Having examined the amendments to the Statutes of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) recommended by the fourteenth session of the IOC Assembly (24 C/lOl, Part II), together with the report of the Legal Committee thereon (24 C/ ...I,
Approves the amendments to the Statutes of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission as follows:
Article 1, paragraph 1:
'(a) The Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, hereafter called the Commission, is established as a body with functional autonomy within the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
(b) It guides the conception and follows the implementation of its programme as approved by the General Conference in the framework of the latter's adopted budget.'
Article 1, paragraph 2:
'The purpose of the Commission is to promote marine scientific fnvestigations and related ocean services, with a view to learning more about the nature and resources of the oceans through the concerted action of its members. '
Article 2, paragraph 1:
'(b) Develop, recommend and co-ordinate international programmes for scientific investigation of the oeceans and related ocean services which call for concerted action by its members; '
'(c) develop, recommend and co-ordinate with interested international organizations, international programmes for scientific investigation of the oceans and related ocean services which call for concerted action with interested organizations;'
'(f) Promote and co-ordinate the development and transfer of marine science and its technology, particularly to developing countries,'
'(g) Make recommendations to strengthen education and training in marine science and its technology, and promote relevant projects in these fields as components of each of its progrmeu;'
'(h)* and '(i)' [1. These subparagraphs reproduce subparagraphs (8) and (h) of the Statutes.]
'(j) Promote scientific investigation of the oceans and application of the results thereof for the benefit of all mankind, and assist, on request, Member States wishing to co-operate to these ends. Activities undertaken under this subparagraph shall be subject, in accordance with international law, to the regime for marine scientific research in zones under national jurisdiction.'
'(k) Promote, plan and co-ordinate observing and monitoring systems, on the properties and quality of the marine environment, as well as the preparation and dissemination of processed oceanographic data and information, and of assessment studies.'
'(1) Promote, recommend and co-ordinate, with international organizations, as appropriate, the development of standards, reference materials and nomenc1.ature for use in marine science and related ocean services.'
'(m) Undertake, as appropraite, any other action compatible with its purpose and functions eoncering the scientific investigation of the ocean and its interfaces.'
Article 2, paragraph 2:
'The Commission, in carrying out its functions, shall take into account the special needs and interests of developing countries, including in particular the need to further the capabilities of these countries in marine science and technology.'
'Article 2, paragraph 3:
'Nothing in this Article shall imply the adoption of a position by the Commission regarding the nature or extent of the jurisdiction of coastal States in general or of any coastal State in particular.'
Article 3:
'1. The Commission shall give due attention to supporting the objectives of the international organizations with which it collaborates. On the other hand, the Commision may request these organizations to take its requirements into account in planning and executing their own programmes.'
'2. The Commission may act also as a joint specialized mechanism of the organizations of the United Nations system that have agreed to use the Commission for discharging certain of their responsibilities in the fields of marine science and ocean services, and have agreed accordingly to sustain the work of the Commission.'
Article 4, paragraph 3:
'3. Any Member State of the Commission may withdraw from it by giving notice of its intention to do so to the Director-General of Uneseo. The date of such notice shall be that of its receipt by the Director-General, The notice shall take effect on the first day of the next ordinary session of the Assembly following the date of notice of withdrawal if the notice is given more than one year before the first day of said session; if the notice of withdrawal is given less than one year before the first day of the said session, it shall take effect one year after the date of notice of withdrawal.'
Article 5, paragraph 4:
'4. During the course of each ordinary session, the Assembly, taking into account the principles of geographical distribution, shall elect:
(a) a Chairman and four Vice-chairmen who shall be the officers of the Commission, its Assembly and its Executive Council;
(b) a number of Member States to the Excutive Council, which number shall not exceed one quarter of the Member States of the Commission; each Member State so elected shall designate its representative on the Executive Council.'
Article 9, paragraph 1:
'1. With due regard to the applicable Staff Regulations and Rules of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the Secretariat of the Commission shall consist of a Secretary and such other staff as may be necessary, provided by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, as well as such personnel as may be provided, at their expense, by the United Nations, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the World Meteorological Organization and the International Maritime Organization and other organizations of the United Nations system.'
Article 10, paragraph 2:
'2. The expenditure of the Commission shall be financed from funds appropriated for this purpose by the General Conference of Unesco, from contributions by Member States of the Commission that are nor Member States of Unesco, as well as from such additional resources as may be made available by other organizations of the United Nations system and by Member States, and from other sources.' 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

