
 Protocol Open for Signature by States not Parties to the Convention For The Conservation Of Salmon In The North Atlantic Ocean   
     Filename: 1990-Protocol-1982-NorthAtlanticSalmon.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.nasco.int/pdf/agreements/NonParty_protocol.pdf     
    ﻿ Protocol Open for Signature by States Not Parties to the Convention for the Conservation of Salmon in the North Atlantic Ocean
 Sources: http://www.nasco.int/pdf/agreements/NonParty_protocol.pdf and http://www.nasco.int/pdf/agreements/CNL%2892%2952.pdf downloaded 20120628 
 RESOLUTION OF THE COUNCIL OF NASCO AT ITS NINTH ANNUAL MEETING WASHINGTON DC 912 JUNE 1992
 ADOPTION OF A PROTOCOL FOR STATES NOT PARTY TO THE CONVENTION FOR THE CONSERVATION OF SALMON IN THE NORTH ATLANTIC OCEAN
 The Council
 RECALLING the Special Meeting of the contracting Parties held in London on 1415 January 1992 at which the possibility of drafting of Protocol to the Convention on the Conservation of Salmon in the North Atlantic Ocean was discussed
 RECALLING FURTHER the drafting session held in WashingtonDCon 89 April 1992 which produced a draft text of such a Protocol
 DESIRING to promote the conservation of salmon stocks in the North Atlantic Ocean through international cooperation
 1. Adopts the Protocol for States not party to the Convention for the Conservation of Salmon in the North Atlantic Ocean the Protocol
 2. Requests the NASCO Secretariat to transmit copies of the Protocol together with any related resolution to the governments of all States identified by the Council and
 3. Invites NASCO contracting Parties to encourage such States to become party to the Protocol
 Protocol Open for Signature by States Not Parties to the Convention for the Conservation of Salmon in the North Atlantic Ocean
 Each Party to this Protocol,
 HAVING REGARD TO the Convention for the Conservation of Salmon in the North Atlantic Ocean (the "Convention"), which seeks to promote the conservation, restoration, enhancement and rational management of salmon stocks;
 WELCOMING the achievements in salmon conservation by Contracting Parties to the Convention, within the framework of the Convention, and the role of the North Atlantic Salmon Conservation Organization (the "Organization") therein;
 BEING CONSCIOUS that the conservation of Atlantic salmon stocks as referred to in Article 1(1) of the Convention will be enhanced by broad international agreement on conservation measures;
 DESIRING the creation of a legal instrument for States which are unable to become Contracting Parties to the Convention;
 Has agreed as follows:
 ARTICLE 1
 Measures to Conserve Atlantic Salmon
 Each Party shall:
 (a) prohibit the fishing of salmon stocks referred to in Article 1(1) of the Convention beyond areas of fisheries jurisdiction of coastal States; and
 (b) take appropriate action to enforce the provisions of this Protocol.
 ARTICLE 2
 Information
 Each Party shall provide to the Organization information on measures it has adopted to implement this Protocol and on any enforcement action it has taken in response to activities contrary to the provisions of this Protocol.
 ARTICLE 3
 Non-prejudice
 Nothing in this Protocol shall prejudice or affect the extent of a Party's sovereignty, the exercise by a Party of sovereign rights over maritime areas in accordance with international law, the position of any Party concerning the extent of its fisheries jurisdiction, or the position of any Party regarding any other international agreement to which it has adhered or may adhere.
 ARTICLE 4
 Withdrawal
 At any time after three months from the date on which this Protocol has entered into force for a Party, that Party may withdraw from the Protocol by giving written notice to the Depositary. Withdrawal shall take effect six months after receipt of such notice by the Depositary.
 ARTICLE 5
 Final Provisions
 1. This Protocol shall be open for signature by any State.
 2. This Protocol shall be subject to ratification or approval.
 3. Instruments of ratification or approval shall be deposited with the Depositary, which shall be the Council of the European Communities.
 4. The Depositary shall inform the signatories to this Protocol, the Organization, and the Contracting Parties to the Convention of the deposit of all instruments of ratification or approval.
 5. This Protocol shall enter into force for each State one month after the date of deposit of its instrument of ratification or approval with the Depositary.
 6. The original of this Protocol in the English and French languages, each version being equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Depositary, which shall transmit certified copies thereof to all of the signatories. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

