
 Protocol on Sustainable Tourism to the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathians   
     Filename: 2011-ProtocolSustainableTourism-2003-ProtectionSustainableDevelopmentCarpathians.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.carpathianconvention.org/tl_files/carpathiancon/Downloads/01%20The%20…     
    ﻿Protocol On Sustainable Tourism To The Framework Convention On The Protection And Sustainable Development Of The Carpathians (Bratislava on the 27. May 2011)
Source: http://www.carpathianconvention.org/tl_files/carpathiancon/Downloads/01%..., downloaded 20121215
THE PARTIES TO THIS PROTOCOL
IN ACCORDANCE with their tasks, arising from the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathians done in Kyiv on 22 May 2003, hereinafter referred to as the "Carpathian Convention", of pursuing a comprehensive policy and cooperating for the protection and sustainable development of the Carpathians;
IN COMPLIANCE with their obligations under Article 9 of the Carpathian Convention;
IN COMPLIANCE with their obligations under the Protocol on Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological and Landscape Diversity to the Carpathian Convention;
NOTING that all Parties to the Protocol are Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (Rio de Janeiro, 1992) hereinafter referred to as the "CBD", and RECALLING the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Alpine Convention and the Carpathian Convention signed on 29 May 2008 in Bonn, and Decision 11 of the 2nd Conference of the Parties (COP2) to the Carpathian Convention which recommends to make enhanced efforts for the implementation of the CBD Programme of Work on Mountain Biological Diversity;
RECALLING Decision VII/14 of the CBD COP7 which adopted the Guidelines on Biodiversity and Tourism Development and invited Governments to integrate these Guidelines in the development or review of their strategies and plans for tourism development;
NOTING other relevant conventions and agreements, in particular the European Landscape Convention (Florence, 2000), the Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage (Paris, 1972), the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context (Espoo, 1991) and the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters (Aarhus, 1998);
RECOGNIZING the importance of mountain areas, as enshrined in Chapter 13 (Sustainable Mountain Development) of the Declaration on Environment and Development ("Agenda 21", Rio de Janeiro, 1992);
RECALLING the Programme for the further implementation of the Declaration on Environment and Development ("Agenda 21", Rio de Janeiro, 1992), the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, and ACKNOWLEDGING the endeavors and achievements of the Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD) in cooperation with the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) aiming to promote sustainable tourism;
CONSIDERING that the unique biological and cultural diversity and the common heritage of the Carpathians constitute important assets for the development of sustainable tourism;
RECOGNIZING the increasing importance of tourism for social and economic development at local, national and regional levels, and that the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians may constitute an opportunity for the economic development of less developed areas as well as for the diversification of local economies, and present a significant potential for realizing benefits in terms of the conservation of biological diversity and the sustainable use of its components.
RECOGNIZING that the Carpathians constitute the living environment for the local people, and ACKNOWLEDGING the contribution of the local people to sustainable social, cultural and economic development, and to preserving traditional knowledge in the Carpathians;
CONVINCED that efforts to protect, maintain and sustainably manage the natural and cultural resources of the Carpathians cannot be achieved by one country alone and require regional cooperation, and RESOLVED to cooperate on the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians with the objective to ensure that tourism in the Carpathians is developed in harmony with environmental considerations and integrates socio-economic benefits with the conservation of biological and cultural diversity;
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
CHAPTER I
OBJECTIVES, GEOGRAPHICAL SCOPE AND DEFINITIONS
Article 1
General objectives and principles
1. In accordance with Article 9 of the Carpathian Convention the objective of the Protocol on Sustainable Tourism (hereinafter referred to as "the Protocol") is to enhance and facilitate cooperation of the Parties for the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians for the benefit to present and future generations, with the objective to maximize the positive benefits of tourism to biodiversity, ecosystems, and economic and social development, and of biodiversity to tourism, while mitigating negative ecological, environmental and socio-economic impacts from tourism.
2. To achieve the above objectives, the Parties shall:
(a) harmonize and coordinate their efforts on promoting sustainable tourism in the Carpathians, providing benefits to the local people, based on the exceptional nature, landscapes and cultural heritage of the Carpathians, and increase cooperation to this effect;
(b) pursue policies aiming at promoting transboundary cooperation in order to facilitate sustainable tourism development, such as coordinated or joint management plans for transboundary or bordering protected areas, and other sites of touristic interest.
3. The Parties shall therefore cooperate especially on:
(a) promoting the Carpathian region as the destination for sustainable tourism;
(b) developing, promoting and marketing the Carpathian regional sustainable tourism services, products and packages;
(c) ensuring the common high quality standards for sustainable tourism development in the Carpathians;
(d) enhancing the contribution of tourism to the sustainable development of local economies in the Carpathians;
(e) managing tourist traffic and tourist destinations in the Carpathians for the benefit of the environment and sustainable local economic development in less developed areas;
(f) enhancing the contribution of tourism to the conservation and sustainable use of biological and landscape diversity of the Carpathians in accordance with the objectives of the European Landscape Convention;
(g) enhancing the contribution of tourism to sustainable agriculture in the Carpathians;
(h) enhancing the contribution of tourism to sustainable forest management in the Carpathians;
(i) planning sustainable development of tourist transport and infrastructure in the Carpathians;
(j) enhancing the contribution of tourism to the preservation and promotion of the cultural heritage and of traditional knowledge of the local people in the Carpathians;
(k) enhancing the contribution of tourism to public education and awareness on sustainability issues;
(l) promoting transboundary cooperation on sustainable tourism development in the Carpathians;
(m) managing the impacts of tourism on the biological and landscape diversity of the Carpathians;
(n) managing environmental impacts of tourism in the Carpathians;
(o) managing socio-economic and cultural impacts of tourism in the Carpathians;
(p) monitoring the effectiveness of policies and strategies for the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians.
Article 2
Geographical scope
1. This Protocol applies to the Carpathian region (hereinafter referred to as "the Carpathians"), as defined by the Conference of the Parties.
2. Each Party may extend the application of this Protocol to additional parts of its national territory by making a declaration to the Depositary.
Article 3
Definitions
For the purposes of this Protocol:
(a) "Biodiversity Protocol" means the Protocol on Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological and Landscape Diversity to the Carpathian Convention, done in Bucharest on 19 June 2008;
(b) "Biological diversity" means the variability among living organisms which includes diversity within species, between species and of ecosystems;
(c) "Border area" means an area remaining under the jurisdiction of the respective Party in the proximity of the state border with another Party, where activities undertaken on one side of the state border are, depending on the nature of the particular activity, likely to have direct or indirect and adverse or positive environmental impact on the other side of the state border;
(d) "Conservation" means a series of measures required to maintain the natural habitats and the populations of species of wild fauna and flora at a favorable conservation status;
(e) "Conference of the Parties" means the Conference of the Parties to the Carpathian Convention;
(f) "Carpathian Convention" means the Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathians, done in Kyiv on 22 May 2003;
(g) "Endangered species" means species in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant proportion of their range;
(h) "Invasive alien species" means non-native species introduced deliberately or unintentionally outside their natural habitats, where they become established, proliferate and spread in ways that cause damage to their receiving environment;
(i) "Landscape" means an area, as perceived by people, whose character is the result of the action and interaction of natural and/or human factors;
(j) "Landscape diversity" means the variability among landscapes;
(k) "Native species" means indigenous species to a given region or ecosystem;
(l) "Natural habitat" means the terrestrial or aquatic area distinguished by geographic, abiotic and biotic features where an organism or population naturally occurs;
(m) "Observer" means observer defined under the Article 14 paragraph 5 of the Carpathian Convention;
(n) "Party" means a Party to this Protocol;
(o) "Public concerned" means the public affected or likely to be affected by, or having an interest in tourism development and related decision making; the definition includes indigenous peoples and local people; for the purposes of this definition, non-governmental organizations promoting any aspect of sustainable development and meeting any requirements under national law shall be deemed to have an interest;
(p) "Protected area" means a geographically defined area which is designated and managed to achieve specific conservation objectives;
(q) "Restoration" means the return of an ecosystem or habitat to its original structure, natural composition of species, and natural functions;
(r) "Subsidiary body" means a subsidiary body established in accordance with Article 14 paragraph 2(e) of the Convention that may include thematic working groups or committees;
(s) "Sustainable development" means the development which meets the needs and aspirations of the current generations without compromising the ability to meet those of future generations;
(t) "Sustainable tourism" means tourism which provides for sustainable use of environmental resources, prevents threats to the biological and landscape diversity on which it is intrinsically dependent and minimizes adverse environmental, ecological, cultural and social impacts; provides educational opportunity increasing knowledge of and respect for natural ecosystems and biological resources; respects the socio-cultural authenticity of host communities conserving their built and living cultural heritage and traditional values, contributes to inter-cultural understanding and tolerance, contributes to ensuring viable, long-term economic operations, providing socio-economic benefits to all stakeholders that are fairly distributed, including stable employment and income-earning opportunities and social services to host communities, and contributing to poverty alleviation;
(u) "Sustainable use" means the use of components of biological diversity in a way and at a rate that does not lead to the long-term decline of biological diversity, thereby maintaining its potential to meet the needs and aspirations of present and future generations;
(v) "Transboundary protected area" means an area composed of two or more protected areas located within the territories of two or more Parties, adjacent to the state border, each remaining under jurisdiction of the respective Party.
CHAPTER II
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS
Article 4
Harmonization of policies aiming at sustainable tourism planning, development and management in the Carpathians
1. Each Party shall develop and implement policies and strategies in its national territory aiming at the development of sustainable tourism and its management and monitoring in the Carpathians while taking into consideration policies and strategies developed and implemented by other Parties.
2. Parties shall consider and utilize internationally applied tools and methodologies for planning, development and management of tourism, especially in vulnerable areas limited to economic use, and to harmonize existing national planning tools and frameworks.
3. Parties shall exchange information between governmental institutions at all levels and all stakeholders, on best practice for sustainable tourism development and management, including information on planning, standards, legislation and enforcement, and of experience gained in implementation of these principles.
Article 5
Integration of the objectives of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians into sectoral policies
1. The Parties shall take into consideration the objectives of this Protocol in their other policies, in particular but not limited to spatial planning and land resources management, conservation of biological and landscape diversity, water and river basin management, agriculture and forestry, transport and infrastructure, industry and energy.
2. The Parties shall cooperate on integrating the principles of sustainable tourism into other sectoral policies developed at regional or global level which could benefit and have influence on the conservation and sustainable use of biological and landscape diversity in the Carpathians.
Article 6
Participation of regional and local authorities, and other stakeholders
1. Each Party shall take measures, within its existing institutional framework, to involve relevant institutions, regional and local authorities, and other stakeholders concerned in preparing and implementing policies and the resulting measures for the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians.
2. Each Party shall take measures, within its existing institutional framework, to facilitate coordination and cooperation between institutions, authorities and other stakeholders mentioned under paragraph 1, with the objective to encourage shared responsibility and enhance synergies.
Article 7
International cooperation
1. The Parties shall encourage active cooperation among competent institutions and organizations at the international level with regard to sustainable tourism development in the Carpathians.
2 The Parties shall facilitate the cooperation on sustainable tourism development in the Carpathians between regional and local authorities at the international level, and seek solutions to shared problems at the most suitable level.
CHAPTER III
SPECIFIC MEASURES
Article 8
Promotion of the Carpathian region as the destination for sustainable tourism
1. Each Party shall take measures with the objective to promote the Carpathian region as the destination for sustainable tourism based on the unique common natural, cultural, traditional and historical heritage of the Carpathians.
2. The Parties shall cooperate on marketing and promoting the Carpathian region as the destination for sustainable tourism in particular by encouraging, jointly implementing and supporting common projects and initiatives towards sustainable tourism development in the Carpathians which build on and promote the above mentioned values.
Article 9
Development, promotion and marketing the Carpathian regional sustainable tourism products, services and packages
1. Each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to develop and promote Carpathian regional sustainable tourism products, services and packages, in particular those building on the common Carpathian natural, cultural, traditional and historical heritage of the Carpathians, and enhance their marketing on both the domestic and foreign markets.
2. The Parties shall cooperate on the identification of the specific Carpathian competitive advantages for sustainable tourism development over the other European mountain regions, which could provide for the unique selling proposition of the Carpathian regional sustainable tourism products, services and packages in the European and global tourist markets.
3. The Parties shall cooperate on the development of the common Carpathian regional sustainable tourism services, products and packages, and facilitate cooperation of relevant stakeholders active in the Carpathian region in this respect, including tourism operators and other members of the tourism sector.
4. The Parties shall cooperate on the development and implementation of the common Carpathian regional tourist brands.
5. The Parties shall cooperate on the development and implementation of joint promotional strategies and marketing schemes for the common Carpathian regional sustainable tourism products, services and packages.
Article 10
Ensuring the common high quality standards of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians
1. Each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to promote the quality standards for sustainable tourism in the Carpathians.
2. The Parties shall cooperate on developing, promoting and implementing the common Carpathian tourism quality standards concerning accommodation, facilities, services and customer care, considering international and European standards.
3. The Parties shall cooperate on developing, promoting and implementing the common Carpathian tourism quality certification system in considering international and regional quality labels and award schemes or adopting existing certification schemes as appropriate.
4. The Parties shall cooperate on developing, adopting and implementing the common Carpathian policy of permanent and systematic research on the quality of tourism products and services across the whole Carpathian region, monitoring the quality of visitor satisfaction and experience gained at tourist destinations, including raising their awareness on sustainability issues and increasing knowledge of and respect for natural and cultural heritage of the Carpathians.
5. The Parties shall encourage and support the exchange of experiences and good practice examples in introducing and maintaining quality standards in tourist services.
6. The Parties shall encourage and support the development and implementation of joint action plans pursuing qualitative improvements in sustainable tourism services sector in the Carpathians.
Article 11
Enhancing the contribution of tourism to the sustainable development of the local economy in the Carpathians
1. Each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to explore, promote and support the synergies between sustainable tourism development and local economic development in the Carpathians.
2. The Parties shall cooperate on developing, adopting and implementing the common Carpathian policy for the promotion, labeling and certification of local products and local producers' networks, in particular of traditional arts and handicrafts, and local goods including agricultural products utilizing local breeds of domestic animals and cultivated plant varieties.
3. Each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to support and promote initiatives and projects towards sustainable tourism development in the Carpathians which foster the development of local economy and base on the local potential by enhancing the use of local products and skills as well as employment opportunities for the local labour force. Priority should be given to initiatives and projects which:
(a) contribute to ensuring long-term sustainability of tourism economic operations;
(b) strengthen the existing unique selling proposition of a particular tourism destination;
(c) promote innovation and diversity in tourism, and bring the added value to the current local tourist offer of a particular tourist destination, also by creating new local and regional tourist products;
(d) contribute to the diversification of tourism offers with the objective to reduce the adverse effects of the tourism seasonality by generating sufficient demand for tourist services and local employment also in the off-seasons;
(e) contribute to the diversification of the local economic activities beyond tourism with the objective to reduce dependency of the local economy on tourism as appropriate;
(f) enrich and supplement the current local tourism offers of a particular tourism destination rather than compete with already existing businesses.
4. Each Party shall take measures with the objective to promote and support the development of sustainable tourism in less sensitive and less developed areas, with the objective to foster the sustainable economic development of less developed local people, mitigate negative migration and rural depopulation trends, contribute to poverty alleviation and allow for more equal sharing of benefits and revenues from the tourist services sector by all municipalities of the Carpathian region.
5. Each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to build the capacities of local people towards the preparation of sustainable tourism development project proposals and their ability to raise funds for their implementation.
Article 12
Managing tourist traffic in the Carpathians for the benefit of the environment and sustainable local economic development
1. The Parties, in accordance with Article 12 of the Carpathian Convention, shall cooperate on developing, adopting and implementing the common Carpathian policy of permanent and systematic monitoring of tourist traffic in the Carpathian region.
2. With the objective to mitigate the impacts of tourism on fragile mountain ecosystems of the Carpathians and to provide for a more equal distribution of the tourist traffic in the Carpathian region, each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to disperse, redirect and channel part of the tourist traffic out of the current main tourist destinations and sensitive sites such as protected areas, to the areas being less ecologically sensitive, less developed and less explored by tourism, but having sufficient potential to absorb and accommodate part of the tourist traffic.
Article 13
Enhancing the contribution of tourism to the conservation and sustainable use of biological and landscape diversity of the Carpathians
1. Each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to explore channeling part of the tourism revenues towards supporting the conservation and sustainable use of biological and landscape diversity of the Carpathians, in particular towards the establishment, management and maintenance of protected areas.
2. The Parties shall cooperate on the exchange of information and promotion of good practice examples concerning the contribution of and benefits from sustainable tourism development to the conservation and sustainable use of biological and landscape diversity of the Carpathians.
Article 14
Enhancing the contribution of tourism to sustainable agriculture in the Carpathians
1. Each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to explore, promote and support the synergies between sustainable tourism development and sustainable agriculture in the Carpathians, and facilitate cooperation in this respect between relevant authorities, institutions, and relevant stakeholders including tourism operators and other members of the tourism sector.
2. Each Party, in accordance with Article 7 and Article 11 of the Carpathian Convention, shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to support and promote initiatives and projects towards sustainable tourism development in the Carpathians which provide sound economic incentives for the maintenance of the management of agricultural land traditionally cultivated in the Carpathians in a sustainable manner and for producing, labeling and certification of local goods utilising the local agricultural products, local breeds of domestic animals and cultivated plant varieties.
3. The Parties shall cooperate on the exchange of information and promotion of good practice examples concerning the contribution of and benefits from sustainable tourism development to the sustainable agriculture in the Carpathians.
Article 15
Enhancing the contribution of tourism to sustainable forest management in the Carpathians
1. Each Party, taking into account the multiple functions of forests, shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to explore, promote and support the synergies between sustainable tourism development and sustainable forest management in the Carpathians, and facilitate cooperation in this respect between relevant authorities, institutions, forest administrations and relevant stakeholders including tourism operators and other members of the tourism sector.
2. The Parties shall cooperate on the exchange of information and promotion of good practice examples concerning the contribution of and benefits from sustainable tourism development to the sustainable forest management in the Carpathians.
Article 16
Planning the sustainable development of tourist transport and infrastructure in the Carpathians
1. Each Party, in accordance with Article 8 paragraph 1 of the Carpathian Convention as well as Article 5, Article 8, Article 9 and Article 12 of the Biodiversity Protocol, shall pursue policies of sustainable tourism transport planning in the Carpathians, which take into account the specificities of the mountain environment.
2. The Parties, in accordance with Article 8 paragraph 2 of the Carpathian Convention, shall cooperate towards developing sustainable transport schemes in their border areas in the Carpathians with the objective to provide the benefits of mobility and access to the local inhabitants and tourists, facilitate sustainable tourism development in border areas and enhance interactions and cooperation between the local people inhabiting the border areas.
3. The Parties, in accordance with Article 8 paragraph 3 of the Carpathian Convention, shall cooperate towards developing models of environmentally friendly tourist transportation in environmentally sensitive areas of the Carpathians.
4. Each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to promote and support sustainable transport network development projects improving the access to tourist destinations and resorts in the Carpathians by public transport, and shall encourage tourists to use these services.
5. Each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to reduce dependence on motorized vehicles in and in the vicinity of tourist destinations and resorts in the Carpathians.
6. Each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to promote revitalisation and upgrading of existing tourist, recreational and sport infrastructure objects rather than the construction of new ones in the Carpathians.
7. The Parties shall cooperate on the exchange of information and promotion of good practice examples concerning the sustainable development of tourist transport and infrastructure in the Carpathians.
Article 17
Enhancing the contribution of tourism to the preservation and promotion of the cultural heritage and of traditional knowledge of the local people in the Carpathians
1. The Parties, in accordance with Article 11 of the Carpathian Convention, shall cooperate on developing, adopting and implementing the common principles of sustainable tourism development in the Carpathians, fostering preservation and promotion of the cultural heritage and traditional knowledge of the local people, enhancing and respecting their socio-cultural authenticity in the Carpathians, and conserving their built and living cultural heritage and traditional values.
2. Each Party shall take measures with the objective to promote and support the development of sustainable tourism activities fostering preservation and promotion of the cultural heritage and traditional knowledge of the local people in the Carpathians, in particular initiatives and projects towards sustainable tourism development in the Carpathians which provide sound economic incentives for the preservation of the traditional architecture objects, local breeds of domestic animals and cultivated plant varieties, as well as the continuation of traditional land-use patterns and practices, crafting and marketing of local goods, arts and handicrafts.
3. Each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to encourage channeling part of the tourism revenues towards supporting the preservation and promotion of the cultural heritage and traditional knowledge of the local people in the Carpathians, in particular for the preservation and revitalization of traditional architecture objects, traditional handicraft, land-use patterns, local breeds of domestic animals and cultivated plant varieties.
Article 18
Enhancing the contribution of tourism to public education and awareness on sustainability issues
1. Each Party shall take measures with the objective to promote and support initiatives and projects aiming at raising awareness on sustainability issues related to sustainable tourism development in the Carpathians.
2. The Parties shall cooperate on developing the common Carpathian environmental education, nature and cultural heritage interpretation and other awareness raising programmes, associated to sustainable tourism development in the Carpathians, with the objectives to:
(a) raise the awareness of the local people, tour operators and tourist service providers, tourists and general public on sustainability issues in the Carpathians;
(b) increase knowledge of and respect for natural ecosystems and biological resources of the Carpathians;
(c) raise the profile of biological and landscape diversity conservation at national and local levels;
(d) increase knowledge of and respect for the cultural heritage and the traditional knowledge of the local people in the Carpathians,
(e) promote sustainable tourism practices and appropriate behavior by tourists so as to minimize their adverse impacts, e.g. by developing the common "Carpathian code of good practice in sustainable tourism";
(f) promote positive effects of sustainable tourism development in the Carpathians.
Article 19
Information and experience exchange, capacity building for development and management of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians
1. The Parties shall cooperate on the exchange of information and experience, and promotion of good practice examples concerning the development and management of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians.
2. The Parties shall facilitate international cooperation among scientific institutions with regard to sustainable tourism development and management in the Carpathians, in particular on the harmonization of monitoring systems, the provision and harmonization of databases, and undertaking common research programs and projects in the Carpathians.
3. The Parties shall ensure that the national results of the research and monitoring which are conducive to achieving the objectives of this Protocol are included in a common permanent observation and information system, and that they are made accessible to the public under the existing institutional framework.
4. The Parties shall facilitate the transfer and assimilation of environmentally-sound, socially acceptable and appropriate technologies and know-how for the planning, development and management of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians.
5. The Parties shall cooperate on developing common education and training schemes in areas related to the development and management of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians, and encourage and support the development of expert networks for the exchange of related expertise, skills and information.
6. The Parties shall cooperate on the development and strengthening of human resources and institutional capacities perceived as conducive to achieving the objectives of this Protocol.
Article 20
Promoting transboundary cooperation on sustainable tourism development in the Carpathians
1. The Parties, in accordance with Article 9 paragraph 2 of the Carpathian Convention, shall pursue policies aiming at promoting transboundary cooperation in order to facilitate sustainable tourism development in the border areas of the Carpathians.
2. Each Party shall develop and implement management plans with the objective to enhance sustainable tourism development in the border areas of the Carpathians.
3. The Parties, in accordance with Article 9 paragraph 2 of the Carpathian Convention, shall take measures with the objective to coordinate management planning related to sustainable tourism development or develop joint management plans for its border areas in the Carpathians with the neighboring Party or Parties, in particular for transboundary or bordering protected areas, and other sites of touristic interest.
Article 21
Managing impacts of tourism on the biological and landscape diversity of the Carpathians
1. The Parties shall apply the precaution and prevention principles by assessing and taking into consideration possible direct or indirect, short- or long-term influence, including cumulative effects of tourism, recreational and sport infrastructure development projects, as well as tourist, recreational and sport activities, which are likely to have adverse impacts on the biological and landscape diversity of the Carpathians. In this regard, Parties shall proceed with appropriate assessment of potential adverse impact of projects, plans and activities related to tourism development in the Carpathians, including transboundary impacts.
2. The Parties, in accordance with Article 12 of the Carpathian Convention, shall cooperate on developing, adopting and implementing the common Carpathian policy of permanent and systematic monitoring of impacts of both existing and planned tourism developments on the biological and landscape diversity of the Carpathians, to be applied at regional, national and local levels; in particular concerning:
(a) conservation, maintenance, restoration and sustainable use of endangered natural and semi-natural habitats native to the Carpathians included in the Carpathian Red List of Habitats, pursuant to Article 8 paragraph 1 of the Biodiversity Protocol;
(b) integrity, continuity, connectivity and maintenance of protected areas and other areas significant for biological and landscape diversity of the Carpathians and for the coherence of the ecological network in the Carpathians, pursuant to Article 9 of the Biodiversity Protocol;
(c) conservation of endangered flora and fauna species native to the Carpathians included in the Carpathian Red List of Species, pursuant to Article 12 paragraph 1 of the Biodiversity Protocol;
(d) prevention of introduction or release of invasive alien species and/or genetically modified organisms which are likely to have adverse environmental impacts that could affect the biological diversity, ecosystems, habitats or species of the Carpathians, pursuant to Article 13 paragraph 1 of the Biodiversity Protocol.
3. Each Party shall establish conditions and criteria, including relevant remedial and compensatory measures, under which policies, projects and activities related to tourism development with potential harmful impacts on the biological and landscape diversity of the Carpathians may be authorized.
4. Each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to prevent, mitigate and if necessary compensate possible adverse impacts of tourism on the biological and landscape diversity of the Carpathians.
Article 22
Managing environmental impacts of tourism in the Carpathians
1. The Parties shall apply the precaution and prevention principles by assessing and taking into consideration possible direct or indirect, short- or long-term influence, including cumulative effect of tourism, recreational and sport infrastructure development projects, as well as tourist, recreational and sport activities, which are likely to have adverse impacts on the environment of the Carpathians. In this regard, Parties shall proceed with appropriate assessment of potential adverse impact of projects, plans and activities related to tourism development in the Carpathians, including transboundary impacts.
2. The Parties, in accordance with Article 12 of the Carpathian Convention, shall cooperate on developing, adopting and implementing the common Carpathian policy of permanent and systematic monitoring of environmental impacts of both existing and planned new tourism developments in the Carpathians, to be applied at regional, national and local levels; in particular concerning the use of natural resources such as land, soil, water, forests, energy; as well as sewage, waste and air pollution management issues.
3. Each Party shall establish conditions and criteria, including relevant remedial and compensatory measures, under which policies, projects and activities related to tourism development with potential harmful impacts on the environment of the Carpathians may be authorized.
4. Each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to prevent, mitigate and if necessary compensate possible adverse environmental impacts of tourism in the Carpathians.
Article 23
Managing socio-economic and cultural impacts of tourism in the Carpathians
1. The Parties shall apply the precaution and prevention principles by assessing and taking into consideration possible direct or indirect, short- or long-term influence, including cumulative effect of the tourist, recreational and sport infrastructure development projects, as well as tourist, recreational and sport activities, which are likely to have adverse socio-economic and cultural impacts in the Carpathians. In this regard, Parties shall proceed with appropriate assessment of potential adverse impact of projects, plans and activities related to tourism development in the Carpathians, including transboundary impacts.
2. The Parties, in accordance with Article 12 of the Carpathian Convention, shall cooperate on developing, adopting and implementing the common Carpathian policy of permanent and systematic monitoring and assessment of the socio-economicand cultural impacts of tourism in the Carpathians, to be applied at regional, national and local levels.
3. Each Party shall take measures in its national territory with the objective to prevent, mitigate and if necessary compensate possible adverse socio-economic and cultural impacts of tourism in the Carpathians.
Article 24
Monitoring the effectiveness of policies and strategies for the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians
1. Each Party shall monitor the effectiveness of policies and strategies towards the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians implemented at the national, regional and local levels.
2. The Parties, in accordance with Article 12 of the Carpathian Convention, shall cooperate in developing, adopting and implementing the common Carpathian policy of permanent and systematic monitoring; to be applied at regional, national and local levels; of the effects of policies and strategies implemented towards the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians, by defining and applying the commonly agreed set of indicators, in particular taking into account, assessing and measuring:
(a) the contribution of policies and strategies towards the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians to the conservation and sustainable use of biological and landscape diversity of the Carpathians, in accordance with Article 4 of the Carpathian Convention and with the Biodiversity Protocol;
(b) the contribution of policies and strategies towards the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians to the protection and sustainable use of water resources of the Carpathians, in accordance with Article 6 of the Carpathian Convention;
(c) the contribution of policies and strategies towards the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians to the sustainable agriculture, in particular the maintenance of the management of agricultural land traditionally cultivated in the Carpathians in a sustainable manner, in accordance with Article 7 of the Carpathian Convention;
(d) the contribution of policies and strategies towards the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians to the sustainable forest management in the Carpathians, in accordance with Article 7 of the Carpathian Convention;
(e) the contribution of policies and strategies towards the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians to the development of sustainable transport and infrastructure, in accordance with Article 8 of the Carpathian Convention;
(f) the contribution of policies and strategies towards the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians to the preservation and promotion of the cultural heritage and of traditional knowledge of the local people in the Carpathians, in accordance with Article 11 of the Carpathian Convention;
(g) the effectiveness of policies and strategies towards the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians in enhancing environmental impact management in the Carpathians;
(h) the effectiveness of policies and strategies towards the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians in enhancing social and cultural impact management in the Carpathians;
(i) the effectiveness of policies and strategies in enhancing quality standards in the tourism sector in the Carpathians;
(j) the effectiveness of policies and strategies towards the development of sustainable tourism in the Carpathians for the generation of income and employment from tourism in the Carpathians, in short-term and long-term;
(k) the proportion of tourist income retained in the local people, and the overall contribution of tourism to the sustainable development of the local economy and well-being of the local populations in the Carpathians.
Article 25
Common programs and projects
Each Party shall participate, according to its needs and possibilities, in common programs and projects on activities listed under Article 1 paragraphs 2 and 3 jointly undertaken in the Carpathians by the Parties.
CHAPTER IV
IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Article 26
CBD Guidelines on Biodiversity and Tourism Development
1. With the objective to plan, develop and manage tourism activities in the Carpathians in an ecological, economic and socially sustainable manner, the Parties shall promote the integration of the CBD Guidelines on Biodiversity and Tourism Development in the development or review of their strategies and plans for tourism development in the Carpathians and other related sectoral strategies, at appropriate levels in consultation with interested stakeholders including tourism operators and all other members of the tourism sector.
2. The Parties shall consider establishing monitoring and reporting systems based on indicators mentioned in the CBD Guidelines on Biodiversity and Tourism Development and in the UNWTO Set of Indicators, in order to assess the applicability and status of implementation of these Guidelines in the Carpathian region.
3. Parties to the Carpathian Convention shall strive for synergies in the implementation of other bilateral and multilateral agreements relevant to the CBD Guidelines on Biodiversity and Tourism Development and the implementation of this Protocol in the Carpathians, inter alia the Aarhus Convention, the Ramsar Convention, the Convention on Migratory Species, the World Heritage Convention, the United Nations Framework Convention to Combat Climate Change, the European Landscape Convention and others.
Article 27
Implementation
1. Each Party shall undertake appropriate legal and administrative measures for ensuring implementation of the provisions of this Protocol, and monitor the effectiveness of these measures.
2. Each Party shall explore the possibilities of supporting, through financial measures, the implementation of the provisions of this Protocol.
3. The Conference of the Parties shall develop and adopt the Strategy on Sustainable Tourism Development in the Carpathians, which will accompany the implementation of this Protocol.
Article 28
Education, information and public awareness
1. The Parties shall promote the education, information and awareness rising of the public regarding the objectives, measures and implementation of this Protocol.
2. The Parties shall ensure access of the public to the information related to the implementation of this Protocol.
Article 29
Meeting of the Parties
1. The Conference of the Parties of the Carpathian Convention shall serve as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol.
2. The Parties to the Carpathian Convention that are not Parties to this Protocol may participate as observers in the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol. When the Conference of the Parties serves as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol, decisions under this Protocol shall be taken only by those that are Parties to it.
3. When the Conference of the Parties serves as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol, any member of the bureau of the Conference of the Parties representing a Party to the Convention but, at that time, not a Party to this Protocol, shall be substituted by a member to be elected by and from among the Parties to this Protocol.
4. The Rules of Procedure for the Conference of the Parties shall apply mutatis mutandis to the meeting of the Parties, except as may be otherwise decided by consensus by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol.
5. The first meeting of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol shall be convened by the Secretariat in conjunction with the first meeting of the Conference of the Parties that is scheduled after the date of the entry into force of this Protocol. Subsequent ordinary meetings of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol shall be held in conjunction with ordinary meetings of the Conference of the Parties, unless otherwise decided by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol.
6. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol shall make, within its mandate, the decisions necessary to promote its effective implementation. It shall perform the functions assigned to it by this Protocol and shall:
(a) Make recommendations on any matters necessary for the implementation of this Protocol;
(b) Establish such subsidiary bodies as are deemed necessary for the implementation of this Protocol;
(c) Consider and adopt, as required, amendments to this Protocol that are deemed necessary for the implementation of this Protocol; and
(d) Exercise such other functions as may be required for the implementation of this Protocol.
Article 30
Secretariat
1. The Secretariat established by Article 15 of the Carpathian Convention shall serve as the Secretariat of this Protocol.
2. Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Carpathian Convention on the functions of the Secretariat shall apply mutatis mutandis to this Protocol.
Article 31
Subsidiary bodies
1. Any subsidiary body established by or under the Carpathian Convention may, upon a decision by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol, serve the Protocol, in which case the meeting of the Parties shall specify which functions that body shall exercise.
2. Parties to the Carpathian Convention that are not Parties to this Protocol may participate as observers in the meetings of any such subsidiary bodies.Whena subsidiary body of the Carpathian Convention serves as a subsidiary body to this Protocol, decisions under the Protocol shall be taken only by the Parties to the Protocol.
3. When a subsidiary body of the Carpathian Convention exercises its functions with regard to matters concerning this Protocol, any member of the bureau of that subsidiary body representing a Party to the Carpathian Convention but, at that time, not a Party to the Protocol, shall be substituted by a member to be elected by and from among the Parties to the Protocol.
4. Rules of Procedure for the Conference of the Parties to the Carpathian Convention shall apply mutatis mutandis to the participation of observers in the work of subsidiary bodies serving this Protocol.
Article 32
Monitoring of compliance with obligations
1. The Parties shall regularly report to the Conference of the Parties on measures related to this Protocol and the results of the measures taken. The Conference of the Parties shall determine the intervals and format at which the reports must be submitted.
2. Observers may present any information or report on implementation of and compliance with the provisions of this Protocol to the Conference of the Parties and/or to the Carpathian Convention Implementation Committee (hereinafter referred to as the "Implementation Committee").
3. The Implementation Committee shall collect, assess and analyze information relevant to the implementation of this Protocol and monitor the compliance by the Parties with the provisions of this Protocol.
4. The Implementation Committee shall present to the Conference of the Parties recommendations for implementation and the necessary measures for compliance with the Protocol.
5. The Conference of the Parties shall adopt or recommend necessary measures.
Article 33
Evaluation of the effectiveness of the provisions
1. The Parties shall regularly examine and evaluate the effectiveness of the provisions of this Protocol.
2. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Protocol may consider the adoption of appropriate amendments to this Protocol where necessary in order to achieve its objectives.
3. The Parties shall facilitate the involvement of the regional and local authorities, and other stakeholders in the process under paragraph 1.
CHAPTER V
FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 34
Links between the Carpathian Convention and the Protocol
This Protocol constitutes a Protocol to the Carpathian Convention within the meaning of Article 2 paragraph 3 thereof, and any other relevant articles of the Carpathian Convention.
Article 35
Entry into force, amendment of, withdrawal from the Protocol, and settlement of disputes
1. The provisions of Articles 19, 20, 21 paragraphs 2 to 4 and Article 22 of the Carpathian Convention on entry into force, amendment of and withdrawal from this Protocol and on settlement of disputes shall apply mutatis mutandis to this Protocol.
2. Only a Party to the Carpathian Convention may become Party to this Protocol.
Article 36
Reservations
No reservations may be made to this Protocol.
Article 37
Depositary
The Depositary of this Protocol is the Government of Ukraine.
Article 38
Notifications
The Depositary shall, in respect of this Protocol, notify each Contracting Party of
(a) any signature,
(b) the deposit of any instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval,
(c) any date of entry into force,
(d) any declaration made by a Contracting Party or signatory,
(e) any denunciation notified by a Contracting Party, including the date on which it becomes effective.
Article 39
Signature
This Protocol shall be open for signature at the Depositary from 27 May 2011 to 27 May 2012.
Done at Bratislava on the 27 May 2011 in one original in English language.
The original of the Protocol shall be deposited with the Depositary, which shall distribute certified copies to all Parties. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

