
 Amendments To Appendices I and II To The Convention On International Trade In Endangered Species Of Wild Fauna And Flora (COP-16, 2013)   
     Filename: 2013-AmendmentsAppendicesIAndII-1973-TradeEndangeredSpecies.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.cites.org/eng/notif/2013/E-Notif-2013-012.pdf     
    ﻿Amendments To Appendices I and II To The Convention On International Trade In Endangered Species Of Wild Fauna And Flora (COP-16, 2013) 
Source: http://www.cites.org/eng/notif/2013/E-Notif-2013-012.pdf, downloaded 20130625
CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA
NOTIFICATION TO THE PARTIES No. 2013/012 Geneva, 19 April 2013 CONCERNING: AMENDMENTS TO APPENDICES I AND II OF THE CONVENTION
Adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its 16th meeting, Bangkok (Thailand), 3-14 March 2013
1. In accordance with the provisions of Article XV of the Convention, the Conference of the Parties to the Convention, at its 16th meeting (CoP16), held in Bangkok, Thailand, from 3 to 14 March 2013, considered the amendments to Appendices I and II proposed by the Parties. These proposed amendments were communicated to the contracting States of the Convention by Notification to the Parties No. 2012/061 dated 16 November 2012.
2. At its 16th meeting, the Conference of the Parties took the following decisions (the abbreviation 'spp' is used to denote all species of a higher taxon):
a) The following taxa are deleted from Appendix I of the Convention:
F A U N A
CHORDATA
MAMMALIA
DASYUROMORPHIA
Thylacinidae Thylacinus cynocephalus
DIPROTODONTIA
Macropodidae Onychogalea lunata
Potoroidae Caloprymnus campestris
PERAMELEMORPHIA
Chaeropodidae Chaeropus ecaudatus
Thylacomyidae Macrotis leucura
AVES
GALLIFORMES
Phasianidae Lophura imperialis
PICIFORMES
Picidae Campephilus imperialis
b) The following taxa are deleted from Appendix II of the Convention:
F A U N A
CHORDATA
MAMMALIA
CHIROPTERA
Pteropodidae Pteropus brunneus
AVES
FALCONIFORMES
Falconidae Caracara lutosa
STRIGIFORMES
Strigidae Sceloglaux albifacies
AMPHIBIA
ANURA
Rheobatrachidae Rheobatrachus silus
Rheobatrachus vitellinus
F L O R A
BROMELIACEAE Tillandsia kautskyi
Tillandsia sprengeliana
Tillandsia sucrei
CRASSULACEAE Dudleya stolonifera
Dudleya traskiae
c) The following taxa are transferred from Appendix I to Appendix II of the Convention:
F A U N A
CHORDATA
MAMMALIA
ARTIODACTYLA
Bovidae Rupicapra pyrenaica ornata
Camelidae Vicugna vicugna (population of Ecuador) with the following annotation:
For the exclusive purpose of allowing international trade in wool sheared from live vicuñas and in cloth and items made thereof, including luxury handicrafts and knitted articles. The reverse side of the cloth must bear the logotype adopted by the range States of the species, which are signatories to the Convenio para la Conservación y Manejo de la Vicuña, and the selvages the words ‘VICUÑA ECUADOR'. Other products must bear a label including the logotype and the designation ‘VICUÑA ECUADOR-ARTESANÍA'.
All other specimens shall be deemed to be specimens of species included in Appendix I and the trade in them shall be regulated accordingly.
AVES
GALLIFORMES
Phasianidae Tympanuchus cupido attwateri
ARTHROPODA
INSECTA
LEPIDOPTERA
Papilionidae Papilio hospiton
d) The following taxa are transferred from Appendix II to Appendix I of the Convention:
F A U N A
CHORDATA
MAMMALIA
SIRENIA
Trichechidae Trichechus senegalensis
REPTILIA
TESTUDINES
Platysternidae Platysternidae spp.1
Testudinidae Geochelone platynota
Trionychidae Chitra chitra
Chitra vandijki
ELASMOBRANCHII
PRISTIFORMES
Pristidae Pristis microdon
e) The following taxa are included in Appendix II of the Convention:
F A U N A
CHORDATA
REPTILIA
SAURIA
Gekkonidae Naultinus spp.
SERPENTES
Viperidae Trimeresurus mangshanensis2
TESTUDINES
Chelidae Clemmys guttata Emydoidea blandingii Malaclemys terrapin
Geoemydidae Cyclemys spp. Geoemyda japonica Geoemyda spengleri Hardella thurjii Mauremys japonica Mauremys nigricans Melanochelys trijuga Morenia petersi Sacalia bealei Sacalia quadriocellata Vijayachelys silvatica
Trionychidae Dogania subplana Nilssonia formosa Nilssonia leithii3 Palea steindachneri Pelodiscus axenaria Pelodiscus maackii
Pelodiscus parviformis Rafetus swinhoei
AMPHIBIA
ANURA
Dendrobatidae Epipedobates machalilla
ELASMOBRANCHII
CARCHARHINIFORMES
Carcharhinidae Carcharhinus longimanus
(Entry into effect of the inclusion in Appendix II delayed by 18 months, i.e. until 14 September 2014)
Sphyrnidae Sphyrna lewini (Entry into effect of the inclusion in Appendix II delayed by 18 months, i.e. until 14 September 2014)
Sphyrna mokarran (Entry into effect of the inclusion in Appendix II delayed by 18 months, i.e. until 14 September 2014)
Sphyrna zygaena (Entry into effect of the inclusion in Appendix II delayed by 18 months, i.e. until 14 September 2014)
LAMNIFORMES
Lamnidae Lamna nasus
(Entry into effect of the inclusion in Appendix II delayed by 18 months, i.e. until 14 September 2014)
RAJIFORMES
Mobulidae Manta spp. (Entry into effect of the inclusion in Appendix II delayed by 18 months, i.e. until 14 September 2014)
F L O R A
AGAVACEAE Yucca queretaroensis
ANACARDIACEAE Operculicarya decaryi
EBENACEAE Diospyros spp. (populations of Madagascar) (Logs, sawn wood and veneer sheets)
LEGUMINOSAE (Fabaceae) Dalbergia cochinchinensis (Logs, sawn wood, veneer sheets) Dalbergia granadillo (Logs, sawn wood, veneer sheets and plywood) Dalbergia retusa (Logs, sawn wood, veneer sheets and plywood) Dalbergia stevensonii (Logs, sawn wood, veneer sheets and plywood) Dalbergia spp. (populations of Madagascar) (Logs, sawn wood and veneer sheets) Senna meridionalis
PASSIFLORACEAE Adenia firingalavensis Adenia subsessilifolia
PEDALIACEAE Uncarina grandidieri Uncarina stellulifera
SANTALACEAE Osyris lanceolata (populations of Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda and the United Republic of Tanzania) (All parts and derivatives except: a) seeds and pollen; and b) finished products packaged and ready for retail trade)
VITACEAE Cyphostemma laza
f) The following changes are made to annotations:
F A U N A
REPTILIA
TESTUDINES
Chelidae Chelodina mccordi Addition of the annotation "zero export quota from the wild"
Geoemydidae Batagur borneoensis Batagur trivittata Cuora aurocapitata Cuora flavomarginata Cuora galbinifrons Cuora mccordi Cuora mouhotii Cuora pani Cuora trifasciata Cuora yunnanensis Cuora zhoui Heosemys annandalii Heosemys depressa Mauremys annamensis Orlitia borneensis
Addition of the annotation "zero quota on wild specimens for commercial purposes" for all of the above taxaNotification No. 2013/012 page 7
F L O R A
APOCYNACEAE Hoodia spp. Amendment of the existing annotation #9 related to the above taxon to read as follows:
All parts and derivatives except those bearing a label "Produced from Hoodia spp. material obtained through controlled harvesting and production under the terms of an agreement with the relevant CITES Management Authority of [Botswana under agreement No. BW/xxxxxx] [Namibia under agreement No. NA/xxxxxx] [South Africa under agreement No. ZA/xxxxxx]"
ARALIACEAE Panax ginseng
Panax quinquefolius Amendment of the existing annotation #3 related to the above taxa to read as follows:
Designates whole and sliced roots and parts of roots, excluding manufactured parts or derivatives, such as powders, pills, extracts, tonics, teas and confectionery.
LAURACEAE Aniba rosaeodora Amendment of the existing annotation #12 related to the above taxon to read as follows:
Logs, sawn wood, veneer sheets, plywood and extracts. Finished products containing such extracts as ingredients, including fragrances, are not considered to be covered by this annotation.
THYMELAEACEAE (Aquilariaceae) Aquilaria spp.
Gyrinops spp. Amendment of the existing annotation #4 related to the above taxa to read as follows:
All parts and derivatives, except:
a) seeds and pollen;
b) seedling or tissue cultures obtained in vitro, in solid or liquid media, transported in sterile containers;
c) fruits;
d) leaves;
e) exhausted agarwood powder, including compressed powder in all shapes;
f) finished products packaged and ready for retail trade, this exemption does not apply to beads, prayer beads and carvings.
3. As a consequence of the adoption by the Conference of the Parties of a new Annex to Resolution Conf. 12.11 (Rev. CoP15) on Standard nomenclature, containing taxonomic and nomenclature references for species included in the Appendices, some orthographic and name changes will be introduced in the revised version of Appendices I and II.
4. In accordance with the provisions of Article XV, paragraph 1, sub-paragraph (c), of the Convention, the amendments adopted at CoP16 shall enter into force 90 days after that meeting, i.e. on 12 June 2013, for all Parties except those that make reservations in accordance with paragraph 3 of that Article.
5. In accordance with the provisions of Article XV, paragraph 3, of the Convention, and during the period of 90 days provided for by subparagraph (c) of paragraph 1 of that Article (i.e. by 12 June 2013), any Party may by notification in writing to the Depositary Government (the Government of the Swiss Confederation) make a reservation with respect to one or more amendments adopted at the 16th meeting of the Conference of the Parties. Until such reservation is withdrawn, the Party shall be treated as a State not party to the Convention with respect to trade in the species concerned. The other Parties shall then apply the provisions of Article X of the Convention to such trade with the Party having made the reservation.
6. In accordance with the provisions of Article XII, paragraph 2, subparagraph (f), of the Convention, the Secretariat shall publish an updated version of Appendices I and II to take into account the amendments adopted at CoP16 and the changes necessitated by the adoption of standard references mentioned under paragraph 3 above. This updated version, valid from 12 June 2013, will be published on the CITES website before it enters into force.
1 NB: The Appendices currently indicate that only the species Platysternon megacephalum is included in Appendix II but this is currently considered to be the only species in the family Platysternidae. The Conference of the Parties therefore agreed to include all species of the family in Appendix I.
2 NB: Originally proposed for inclusion with the name Protobothrops mangshanensis. This name was amended to follow the standard nomenclature adopted by the Conference of the Parties in Resolution Conf. 12.11 (Rev. CoP15) and its successor.
3 NB: Originally proposed for inclusion with the name Aspideretes leithii, but amended to follow the nomenclature adopted at CoP16 in relation to other species of the genus Nilssonia. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

