
 Agreement on the Amendments to the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin and the Protocol on the Navigation Regime to the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin   
     Filename: 2004-Amendment-2002-SavaRiverBasin.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.mppi.hr/UserDocsImages/nn-05-05-Uredba-izmj-Sava-okv-prot.htm     
    ﻿Agreement on the Amendments to the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin and the Protocol on the Navigation Regime to the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin
Source: http://www.mppi.hr/UserDocsImages/nn-05-05-Uredba-izmj-Sava-okv-prot.htm, downloaded 20130627
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republic of Croatia, Republic of Slovenia and Serbia and Montenegro, (hereinafter: Parties);
Having in mind a need for amendment of Article 33, Paragraph 1 of the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin, as well as Article 14, Paragraph 1 of the Protocol on the Navigation Regime to the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin, signed at Kranjska Gora on 3 December 2002,
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
Article 33 Paragraph 1 of the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin shall be amended to read as follows:
«The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be the depositary of this Agreement.»
Article 2
Article 14 Paragraph 1 of the Protocol on the Navigation Regime to the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin shall be amended to read as follows:
«The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be the depositary of this Protocol.»
Article 3
This Agreement shall be concluded for an indefinite period of time.
This Agreement shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval.
Instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval shall be deposited as soon as possible with the Depositary referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Agreement. The Depositary shall inform the Parties of the date of deposit of each instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval.
This Agreement shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the date of deposit of the fourth instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval, but not prior to entry into force of the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin and the Protocol on the Navigation Regime to the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin. The Depositary shall notify the Parties of the date of the entry into force of this Agreement.
This Agreement shall be provisionally applied from the date of its signature.
Done at Ljubljana on April 2nd, 2004, in four originals in English language, one to be retained by each Party.
For Bosnia and Herzegovina: Mladen Bosic, Ambassador of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia 
For Croatia:
Spomenka Cek, Ambassador of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatian 
For Serbia and Montenegro: Zdravko Tuvić, Minister Plenipotentiary of the Ministry Foreign Affairs of Serbia and Montenegro 
For the Republic of Slovenia: Samuel Zbogar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

