
 Amendments to Annex IX to The Convention On The Control Of Transboundary Movements Of Hazardous Wastes And Their Disposal   
     Filename: 2013-Amendment-1989-TransboundaryMovementHazardousWaste.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.gios.gov.pl/zalaczniki/COP11/UNEP-CHW-COP.11-BC-11-6.English.pdf     
    Amendments to Annex IX to To The Convention On The Control Of Transboundary Movements Of Hazardous Wastes And Their Disposal
Source: http://www.gios.gov.pl/zalaczniki/COP11/UNEP-CHW-COP.11-BC-11-6.English.pdf, downloaded 20140515
BC-11/6: Amendments to Annex IX to the Basel Convention 
The Conference of the Parties, 
Considering the applications made by Finland, Ireland and the Netherlands for new entries to Annex IX to the Basel Convention, 
1. Adopts the following amendments to Annex IX of the Basel Convention:
(a) New entry B3026: 
"The following waste from the pre-treatment of composite packaging for liquids, not containing Annex I materials in concentrations sufficient to exhibit Annex III characteristics:
– Non-separable plastic fraction
– Non-separable plastic-aluminium fraction";
(b) New entry B3027: 
"Self-adhesive label laminate waste containing raw materials used in label material production";
2. Decides to include further work on the following draft entry B3025 in the work programme of the Open-ended Working Group for 2014–2015: "Composite packaging waste consisting of mainly paper and some plastic [and aluminium], not containing residues and not containing Annex I materials in concentrations sufficient to exhibit Annex III characteristics";
3. Invites Parties and others to submit comments to the Secretariat by 30 October 2013 on the draft entry referred to in paragraph 2 above for consideration by the Open-ended Working Group at its ninth meeting; 
4. Requests the Secretariat to communicate the amendments referred to in paragraph 1 above to the Depositary and to update and reproduce the amended version of the Convention texts. 
In accordance with paragraph 3 and subparagraph 2 (b) of Article 18 of the convention, any Party that is unable to accept amendments to an annex to this Convention shall so notify the Depositary, in writing, within six months from the date of the communication of the adoption by the Depositary. The Depositary shall without delay notify all Parties of any such notification received. A Party may at any time substitute an acceptance for a previous declaration of objection and the amendments to the annex in question shall thereupon enter into force for that Party.
Pursuant to subparagraph 2 (c) of Article 18, on the expiry of six months from the date of the circulation of the communication by the Depositary, the amendments to the annex shall become effective for all Parties to this Convention, which have not submitted a notification in accordance with paragraph 2 (b). 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

