
 Agreement Amending Article 10a of the Treaty Of The Southern African Development Community   
     Filename: 2009-Amendment10a-1992-SouthernAfricanDevelopmentCommunity.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.sadc.int/files/6913/5410/3893/Agreement_Amending_Article_10A_of_the_T…     
    ﻿AGREEMENT AMENDING THE TREATY OF THE SOUTHERN AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY PREAMBLE (Amendment to Article _ 1OA of the Treaty)
Source: http://www.sadc.int/files/6913/5410/3893/Agreement_Amending_Article_10A_..., downloaded 20150828
WE, the Heads of State or Government of:
The Republic of Angola
The Republic of Botswana
The Democratic Republic of Congo
The Kingdom of Lesotho
The Republic of Malawi
The Republic of Mauritius
The Republic of Mozambique
The Republic of Namibia
The Republic of Seychelles
The Republic of South Africa
The Kingdom of Swaziland
The United Republic of Tanzania
The Republic of Zambia
The Republic of Zimbabwe
HAVING REGARD to the objectives set forth in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Treaty;
REAFFIRMING our commitment to the principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, especially as these principles must inform the operations of the law enforcement agencies in the SADC Region;
RECOGNIZING that the current policing cooperation activities need a regional institutional framework;
ACTING on the recommendation from the Chairperson of the Organ on Politics, Defence and Security Go-operation;
CONVINCED that the Organ on Politics, Defence and Security Co-operation should also serve as a coordinating forum for: the regional policing cooperation;
REALIZING that the Treaty requires amendment to identify the institutional forum for the coordination of the regional policing cooperation activities;
HEREBY AGREE as follows:
ARTICLE 1
Definitions
In this Agreement, the terms and expressions defined in Article 1 of the Treaty shall bear the same meaning unless the context otherwise .requires.
ARTICLE 2
Amendment to Article 10A of the Treaty
Paragraph 4 of Article 10A of the Treaty is amended to read as follows:
"4. There shall be a Ministerial Committee of the Organ, consisting of the Ministers responsible for:
(a) foreign affairs;
(b) defence;
(c) public security;
(d) state security; or
(e) police,
from each of the Member States, which shall be responsible for the coordination of the work of the Organ and its structures."
ARTICLE 3
Entry into force
This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of signature by three quarters of all members of the Summit.
ARTICLE.4
Depositary
1. The original texts of this Agreement shall be deposited with the Executive Secretary, who shall transmit certified copies to all Member States.
2. The Executive Secretary shall register this Agreement with the Secretariat of the United Nations Organisation and the Commission of the African Union.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WE, the Heads of State or Government, or our duly authorised representatives, have signed this Agreement.
Done in Kinshasa, the Democratic Republic of Conga, this 8th day of September, 2009 in three (3) original texts in the English, French and Portuguese languages, all texts being equally authentic.
Republic of Angola
Democratic Republic of Congo
Kingdom of Lesotho
Republic of Malawi
Republic of Mauritius
Republic of Mozambique
Republic of Namibia
Republic of Seychelles
Republic of South Africa
Kingdom of Swaziland
United Republic of Tanzania
Republic of Zambia 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

