
 Amendments to Annex A to the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (listing hexabromocyclododecane)   
     Filename: 2013-Amendments-2001-PersistentOrganicPollutants.EN.txt 
 Source: http://chm.pops.int/Portals/0/download.aspx?d=UNEP-POPS-TREATY-NOTIF-CN934-2013.…     
    ﻿Amendment to Annex A of the Stockholm Convention On Persistent Organic Pollutants (listing of hexabromocyclododecane)
Source: http://chm.pops.int/Portals/0/download.aspx?d=UNEP-POPS-TREATY-NOTIF-CN9..., downloaded 20150801
At its sixth meeting held in Geneva from 28 April to 10 May 2013, the Conference of the Parties to the above Convention adopted an amendment to Annex A in its decision SC-6/13 to list the chemical “hexabromocyclododecane” in the annex.
In accordance with paragraphs 3 (b) and 3 (c) and paragraph 4 of article 22 of the Convention, any Party that is unable to accept an amendment to Annex A, B or C shall so notify the depositary, in writing, within one year from the date of communication by the depositary of the adoption of the amendment. The depositary shall without delay notify all Parties of any such notification received. A Party may at any time withdraw a previous notification of non-acceptance in respect of any amendment to Annex A, B or C, and the amendment shall thereupon enter into force for that Party subject to paragraph 3 (c) of article 22. On the expiry of one year from the date of the communication by the depositary of the adoption of the amendment to Annex A, B or C, the amendment shall enter into force for all Parties that have not submitted a notification in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of article 22.
In accordance with paragraph 4 of article 22, an amendment to Annex A, B or C shall not enter into force with respect to any Party that has made a declaration with respect to any amendment to those Annexes in accordance with paragraph 4 of article 25, in which case any such amendment shall enter into force for such a Party on the ninetieth day after the date of deposit with the depositary of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession with respect to such amendment. 
The text of the amendment to Annex A, as contained in the abovementioned decision of the Conference of the Parties, in the six authentic languages is transmitted herewith.
SC-6/13: Listing of hexabromocyclododecane
The Conference of the Parties,
Having considered the risk profile and the risk management evaluation and its addendum for hexabromocyclododecane as transmitted by the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee,1
Taking note of the recommendation by the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee to list hexabromocyclododecane in Annex A to the Convention with specific exemptions for production and use in expanded polystyrene and extruded polystyrene in buildings,2
1. Decides to amend part I of Annex A to the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants to list therein hexabromocyclododecane, with specific exemptions for production as allowed for the parties listed in the register of specific exemptions and for use in expanded polystyrene and extruded polystyrene in buildings by inserting the following row:
Chemical: Hexabromocyclododecane 
Activity: Production 
Specific exemption: As allowed for the parties listed in the Register in accordance with the provisions of Part VII of this Annex 
Chemical: Hexabromocyclododecane 
Activity: Use 
Specific exemption: Expanded polystyrene and extruded polystyrene in buildings in accordance with the provisions of Part VII of this Annex
2. Also decides to insert a definition for hexabromocyclododecane in part III of Annex A as follows:
“(c) “Hexabromocyclododecane” means hexabromocyclododecane (CAS No: 25637-99-4), 1,2,5,6,9,10-hexabromocyclododecane (CAS No: 3194- 55-6) and its main diastereoisomers: alpha- hexabromocyclododecane (CAS No: 134237-50-6); beta-hexabromocyclododecane (CAS No: 134237-51- 7); and gamma-hexabromocyclododecane (CAS No: 134237-52-8).”
3. Further decides to insert a new part VII in Annex A as follows:
Part VII
Hexabromocyclododecane
Each Party that has registered for the exemption pursuant to Article 4 for the production and use of hexabromocyclododecane for expanded polystyrene and extruded polystyrene in buildings shall take necessary measures to ensure that expanded polystyrene and extruded polystyrene containing hexabromocyclododecane can be easily identified by labelling or other means throughout its life cycle. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

