
 Amendments To Appendices I And II Of The Convention On The Conservation Of Migratory Species Of Wild Animals   
     Filename: 2014-AmendmentsAppendixIandII-1979-MigratoryWildAnimals.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www5.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/notinforce/2014/33.pdf     
    ﻿AMENDMENTS TO THE APPENDICES OF THE CONVENTION
Source: http://www5.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/notinforce/2014/33.html, downloaded 20151005
The Eleventh Meeting of the Conference of the Parties (COP11) held from 4-9 November 2014 in Quito, Ecuador, decided on the inclusion of thirty-one taxa on the Appendices of the Convention. These taxa and the Appendices to which they were added are set out in the table contained in Annex I of this Notification. The Parties which proposed the amendments are also indicated.
In accordance with Article XI, paragraph 5 of the Convention, the amendments shall enter into force for all Parties ninety days after COP11; that is on 8 February 2015, except for those Parties that make a reservation. During the period of ninety days after COP11, any Party may, by notification in writing to the Depositary, make a reservation with respect to an amendment, in accordance with Article XI, paragraph 6 of the Convention.
Common Name Taxonomic Name Proponent Party Appendices
Mammals
Cuvier’s Beaked Whale (Mediterranean population) Ziphius cavirostris EU and its Member States I
Polar Bear Ursus maritimus Norway II
White-eared Kob Kobus kob leucotis Ethiopia II
Red-fronted Gazelle Eudorcas rufifrons Niger &amp; Senegal I
Birds
European Roller Coracias garrulus EU and its Member States I
Great Bustard Otis tarda Mongolia I
Semi-palmated Sandpiper Calidris pusilla Ecuador &amp; Paraguay I
Great Knot Calidris tenuirostris Philippines I
Canada Warbler Cardellina canadensis Ecuador II
Fish
European Eel Anguilla anguilla Monaco II
Thresher Sharks
Bigeye thresher Alopias superciliosus EU and its Member States II
Common thresher Alopias vulpinus
Pelagic thresher Alopias pelagicus
Sawfishes
Narrow sawfish Anoxypristis cuspidate Kenya I &amp; II
Dwarf sawfish Pristis clavata
Smalltooth sawfish Pristis pectinate
Green sawfish Pristis zijsron
Largetooth sawfish Pristis pristis
Silky Shark Carcharhinus falciformis Egypt II
Scalloped Hammerhead Sphyrna lewini Costa Rica &amp; Ecuador II
Great Hammerhead Sphyrna mokarran Costa Rica &amp; Ecuador II
Mobula Rays
Giant Devil Ray Mobula mobular Fiji I &amp; II
Spinetail Mobula Mobula japonica
Bentfin Devil Ray Mobula thurstoni
Box Ray Mobula tarapacana
Pygmy Devil Ray Mobula eregoodootenkee
Shortfin Devil Ray Mobula kuhlii
Atlantic Devil Ray Mobula hypostoma
Lesser Guinean Devil Ray Mobula rochebrunei
Munk’s Devil Ray Mobula munkiana
Reef Manta Ray Manta alfredi Fiji I &amp; II 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

