
 Amendment to Annex 1 of the Agreement on the Conservation of Albatrosses and Petrels   
     Filename: 2015-AmendmentsAnnexI-2001-ConservationAlbatrossesPetrels.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www5.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/notinforce/2015/21.html     
    ﻿Amendment to Annex 1of the Agreement on the Conservation of Albatrosses and Petrels
Source: http://www5.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/notinforce/2015/21.html, downloaded 20151005
Resolution 5.1: Adopted At Santa Cruz De Tenerife On 8 May 2015
Recalling that the Pink-footed Shearwater (Ardenna creatopus, syn. Puffinus creatopus) is included in Appendix I of the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals;
Considering that the Pink-footed shearwater would benefit from the listing in the Agreement, and with a view to promoting coordinated conservation actions among Range States;
Being aware of the national and international efforts to address existing conservation concerns about the Pink-footed Shearwater, among them the North American Action Plan for the Conservation of the Pink-footed Shearwater, the National Plan for the Conservation of the Pink-footed Shearwater in Chile, the Chilean National Action Plan for reducing seabird by-catch in longline fisheries, and the Recovery Strategy for the Short-tailed Albatross and Pink-footed Shearwater in Canada;
Given that this species faces serious threats, especially predation in breeding colonies and bycatch of fishing gear;
Considering the recommendation of the Advisory Committee (AC7) to list the Pink-footed Shearwater in Annex 1 of the Agreement.
The Meeting of the Parties to the Agreement on the Conservation of Albatrosses and Petrels
Decides:
Pursuant to Article XII (5) of the Agreement, to adopt the following amendment to Annex 1 of the Agreement on the Conservation of Albatrosses and Petrels:
‘Ardenna creatopus, syn. Puffinus creatopus’ shall be added immediately after the entry ‘Procellaria cinerea’ in the current list of petrel species in Annex 1. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

