
 Amendment to Article X, Paragraph 2 of the Convention on International Hydrographic Organisation   
     Filename: 1987-Amendment-1967-internationalhydrographicorganization. 
 Source: http://www.gc.noaa.gov/documents/IHO-convention.pdf     
    Amendment to Article X, Paragraph 2 of the Convention on International Hydrographic Organisation
Source: http://www.gc.noaa.gov/documents/IHO-convention.pdf 
By Decision N° 5, the XIIIth I. H. Conference approved a different system for the election of Directors. A new wording was approved for paragraph 2 of Article X of the Convention. This amendment was referred to all Contracting Parties in accordance with Article XXI of the Convention. At the date of publication of this edition, the majority of two-thirds of the Member Governments has not yet been reached. The text approved at the XIIIth Conference is given below, and will replace the former text if the approval is eventually obtained.
"2. The Directing Committee shall be composed of three directors, one the President and two other directors, each of different nationality, elected by the conference. The Conference shall first elect the President and then the other two directors. The term of office of the Directing Committee shall be five years. If a post of director falls vacant during the period between two Conferences, a by-election may be held by correspondence as provided for in the General Regulations." 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

