
 Amendment to Annex 1 of the Agreement on the Conservation of Albatrosses and Petrels   
     Filename: 2009-AmendmentsAnnexI-2001-ConservationAlbatrossesPetrels 
 Source: http://www.aph.gov.au/parliamentary_business/committees/house_of_representatives…     
    AGREEMENT ON THE CONSERVATION OF ALBATROSSES AND PETRELS
Resolution 3.1
Proposal to amend Annex 1 of the Agreement on the Conservation of Albatrosses and Petrels
Recalling the recognition of the Parties that Northern Hemisphere albatrosses and petrels may benefit from incorporation into this Agreement with a view to promoting co-ordinated conservation actions between Range States;
Conscious of domestic and international efforts to address the conservation concerns of Northern Hemisphere albatrosses and petrels;
Noting the recommendation of the Advisory Committee that three North Pacific species of albatross, the Short-tailed Albatross (Phoebastria albatrus), the Laysan Albatross (Phoebastria immutabilis) and the Black-footed Albatross (Phoebastria nigripes) should be added to Annex 1 of the Agreement;
Noting also the proposal of the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature that Thalassarche melanophris is the appropriate spelling for the Black-browed Albatross;
The Meeting of the Parties to the Agreement on the Conservation of Albatrosses and Petrels
Agrees:
In accordance with Article XII(5) of the Agreement, to adopt the following amendments to Annex 1 of the Agreement on the Conservation of Albatrosses and Petrels:
1. The following shall be added to the list of species of Albatrosses:
Phoebastria albatrus
Phoebastria immutabilis
Phoebastria nigripes
2. In the list of species of Albatrosses, Thalassarche melanophrys shall be replaced by Thalassarche melanophris. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

