
 Amendments To Annexes A And C to the Stockholm Convention On Persistent Organic Pollutants (listing hexachlorobutadiene, pentachlorophenol and its salts and esters, and polychlorinated naphthalenes)   
     Filename: 2015-Amendments-2001-PersistentOrganicPollutantsENtxt 
 Source: http://chm.pops.int/Portals/0/download.aspx?d=UNEP-POPS-TREATY-NOTIF-CN681-2015.…     
    Amendments To Annexes A And C to the Stockholm Convention On Persistent Organic Pollutants (listing hexachlorobutadiene, pentachlorophenol and its salts and esters, and polychlorinated naphthalenes)
Sources: http://chm.pops.int/Portals/0/download.aspx?d=UNEP-POPS-COP.7-SC-7-12.En...http://chm.pops.int/Portals/0/download.aspx?d=UNEP-POPS-COP.7-SC-7-13.En...http://chm.pops.int/Portals/0/download.aspx?d=UNEP-POPS-COP.7-SC-7-14.En... 
Reference: C.N.681.2015.TREATIES-XXVII.15 (Depositary Notification)
At its seventh meeting held in Geneva from 4 to 15 May 2015, the Conference of the Parties to the above Convention adopted amendments to Annexes A and C in its decisions SC-7/12, SC-7/13 and SC-7/14, to list the following chemicals in the annexes:
Decision Amendment
SC-7/12: Listing of hexachlorobutadiene
SC-7/13: Listing of pentachlorophenol and its salts and esters
SC-7/14: Listing of polychlorinated naphthalenes
In accordance with paragraphs 3 (b) and 3 (c) and paragraph 4 of article 22 of the Convention, any Party that is unable to accept an amendment to Annex A, B or C shall so notify the depositary, in writing, within one year from the date of communication by the depositary of the adoption of the amendment. The depositary shall without delay notify all Parties of any such notification received. A Party may at any time withdraw a previous notification of non-acceptance in respect of any amendment to Annex A, B or C, and the amendment shall thereupon enter into force for that Party subject to paragraph 3 (c) of article 22. On the expiry of one year from the date of the communication by the depositary of the adoption of the amendment to Annex A, B or C, the amendment shall enter into force for all Parties that have not submitted a notification in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of article 22.
In accordance with paragraph 4 of article 22, an amendment to Annex A, B or C shall not enter into force with respect to any Party that has made a declaration with respect to any amendment to those Annexes in accordance with paragraph 4 of article 25, in which case any such amendment shall enter into force for such a Party on the ninetieth day after the date of deposit with the depositary of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession with respect to such amendment.
The texts of the amendments to Annexes A and C, as contained in the abovementioned decisions of the Conference of the Parties, in the six authentic languages are transmitted herewith. 15 December 2015.
SC-7/12: Listing of hexachlorobutadiene
Source: http://chm.pops.int/Portals/0/download.aspx?d=UNEP-POPS-COP.7-SC-7-12.En... 
The Conference of the Parties,
Having considered the risk profile and the risk management evaluation for hexachlorobutadiene as transmitted by the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee,1
Taking note of the recommendation by the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee to list hexachlorobutadiene in Annexes A and C to the Convention,
Decides to amend part I of Annex A to the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants to list hexachlorobutadiene therein without specific exemptions by inserting the following row:
Chemical -- Activity -- Specific exemption
Hexachlorobutadiene (CAS No: 87-68-3) -- Production/Use - None/None
SC-7/13: Listing of pentachlorophenol and its salts and esters
Source: http://chm.pops.int/Portals/0/download.aspx?d=UNEP-POPS-COP.7-SC-7-13.En... 
The Conference of the Parties,
Having considered the risk profile and the risk management evaluation for pentachlorophenol and its salts and esters as transmitted by the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee,1
Taking note of the recommendation by the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee to list pentachlorophenol and its salts and esters in Annex A to the Convention with specific exemptions for the production and use of pentachlorophenol for utility poles and cross-arms,
1. Decides to amend part I of Annex A to the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants to list pentachlorophenol and its salts and esters therein with specific exemptions for production as allowed for the parties listed in the register of specific exemptions and for the use of pentachlorophenol for utility poles and cross-arms by inserting the following row:
Chemical -- Activity -- Specific exemption
Pentachlorophenol and its salts and esters -- Production -- As allowed for the parties listed in the Register in accordance with the provisions of part VIII of this Annex
Pentachlorophenol and its salts and esters -- Use -- Pentachlorophenol for utility poles and cross-arms in accordance with the provisions of part VIII of this Annex
2. Also decides to insert a new note (vi) in part I of Annex A, as follows:
(vi) Pentachlorophenol (CAS No: 87-86-5), sodium pentachlorophenate (CAS No: 131-52-2 and 27735-64-4 (as monohydrate)) and pentachlorophenyl laurate (CAS No: 3772-94-9), when considered together with their transformation product pentachloroanisole (CAS No: 1825-21-4), were identified as persistent organic pollutants;
3. Further decides to insert a new part VIII in Annex A as follows:
Part VIII
Pentachlorophenol and its salts and esters
Each Party that has registered for the exemption pursuant to Article 4 for the production and use of pentachlorophenol for utility poles and cross-arms shall take the necessary measures to ensure that utility poles and cross-arms containing pentachlorophenol can be easily identified by labelling or other means throughout their life cycles. Articles treated with pentachlorophenol should not be reused for purposes other than those exempted.
SC-7/14: Listing of polychlorinated naphthalenes
Source: http://chm.pops.int/Portals/0/download.aspx?d=UNEP-POPS-COP.7-SC-7-14.En...
The Conference of the Parties,
Having considered the risk profile and the risk management evaluation for chlorinated naphthalenes as transmitted by the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee,1
Taking note of the recommendation by the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee to list dichlorinated naphthalenes, trichlorinated naphthalenes, tetrachlorinated naphthalenes, pentachlorinated naphthalenes, hexachlorinated naphthalenes, heptachlorinated naphthalenes and octachlorinated naphthalene in Annexes A and C to the Convention,
1. Decides to amend part I of Annex A to the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants to list therein polychlorinated naphthalenes, including dichlorinated naphthalenes, trichlorinated naphthalenes, tetrachlorinated naphthalenes, pentachlorinated naphthalenes, hexachlorinated naphthalenes, heptachlorinated naphthalenes, octachlorinated naphthalene, with specific exemptions for production of those chemicals as intermediates in production of polyfluorinated naphthalenes, including octafluoronaphthalene, and the use of those chemicals for the production of polyfluorinated naphthalenes, including octafluoronaphthalene, by inserting the following row:
Chemical -- Activity -- Specific exemption
Polychlorinated naphthalenes, including dichlorinated naphthalenes, trichlorinated naphthalenes, tetrachlorinated naphthalenes, pentachlorinated naphthalenes, hexachlorinated naphthalenes, heptachlorinated naphthalenes, octachlorinated naphthalene -- Production -- Intermediates in production of polyfluorinated naphthalenes, including octafluoronaphthalene
Polychlorinated naphthalenes, including dichlorinated naphthalenes, trichlorinated naphthalenes, tetrachlorinated naphthalenes, pentachlorinated naphthalenes, hexachlorinated naphthalenes, heptachlorinated naphthalenes, octachlorinated naphthalene -- Use -- Production of polyfluorinated naphthalenes, including octafluoronaphthalene
2. Also decides to amend part I of Annex C to the Convention to list therein polychlorinated naphthalenes, including dichlorinated naphthalenes, trichlorinated naphthalenes, tetrachlorinated naphthalenes, pentachlorinated naphthalenes, hexachlorinated naphthalenes, heptachlorinated naphthalenes, octachlorinated naphthalene, by inserting “Polychlorinated naphthalenes, including dichlorinated naphthalenes, trichlorinated naphthalenes, tetrachlorinated naphthalenes, pentachlorinated naphthalenes, hexachlorinated naphthalenes, heptachlorinated naphthalenes, octachlorinated naphthalene” in the “Chemical” table in a new line below “polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/PCDF)” and by inserting “polychlorinated naphthalenes, including dichlorinated naphthalenes, trichlorinated naphthalenes, tetrachlorinated naphthalenes, pentachlorinated naphthalenes, hexachlorinated naphthalenes, heptachlorinated naphthalenes, octachlorinated naphthalene,” after “polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans” in the first paragraph of parts II and III of Annex C. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

