
 Amendment to Annex 1 of the Agreement on the Conservation of Albatrosses and Petrels   
     Filename: 2006-AmendmentsAnnexI-2001-ConservationAlbatrossesPetrelsentxt.EN.txt 
 Source: https://acap.aq/en/meeting-of-the-parties/mop2/mop2-final-report/982-mop2-final-…     
    Amendment of Annex I of the Agreement on the Conservation of Albatrosses and Petrels
Source: https://acap.aq/en/meeting-of-the-parties/mop2/mop2-final-report/982-mop..., downloaded 20161120
Resolution 2.5
Proposal to amend Annex 1 of the Agreement
Noting the recommendations of the Advisory Committee which endorsed the conclusions of its Taxonomy Working Group;
Noting also available data do not warrant the recognition of the Antipodean Albatross (Diomedea antipodensis) and Gibson’s Albatross (Diomedea gibsoni) at the specific level;
Noting also available data do not warrant the recognition of the Buller’s Albatross (Thalassarche bulleri) and Pacific Albatross (Thalassarche nov. sp. (platei)) at the specific level; and
Noting also available data warrant the recognition of Shy Albatross (Thalassarche cauta) and White-capped Albatross (Thalassarche steadi) as divergent and diagnosable species;
The Meeting of the Parties to the Agreement on the Conservation of Albatrossesand Petrels
Agrees:
1. in accordance with Article XII(5), to amend Annex 1 of the Agreement as set out in Appendix A.
Appendix A
Annex 1. Albatross and Petrel Species to which the Agreement will apply.
Albatrosses (19 species)
Diomedea exulans
Diomedea dabbenena
Diomedea antipodensis
Diomedea amsterdamensis
Diomedea epomophora
Diomedea sanfordi
Phoebastria irrorata
Thalassarche cauta
Thalassarche steadi
Thalassarche salvini
Thalassarche eremita
Thalassarche bulleri
Thalassarche chrysostoma
Thalassarche melanophrys
Thalassarche impavida
Thalassarche carteri
Thalassarche chlororhynchos
Phoebetria fusca
Phoebetria palpebrata
Petrels (7 species)
Macronectes giganteus
Macronectes halli
Procellaria aequinoctialis
Procellaria conspicillata
Procellaria parkinsoni
Procellaria westlandica
Procellaria cinerea 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

