
 Agreement on coordination of interstate relations of the CIS member states in the field of peaceful use of atomic energy   
     Filename: 8018-2013-PeacefulUseNuclearEnergy 
 Source: http://docs.cntd.ru/document/499088831     
    Agreement on the Coordination of Interstate Relations of the CIS Member States in the Field of Peaceful Use of Atomic Energy
Source: http://docs.cntd.ru/document/499088831
The governments of the member states of the Commonwealth of Independent States, hereinafter referred to as the Parties,
based on the Agreement on the Basic Principles of Cooperation in the Field of the Peaceful Use of Atomic Energy of June 26, 1992, and taking into account the Agreement on Cooperation in the Formation and Exchange of Information Resources and in the Creation and Development of Information Systems of the Member States of the Commonwealth of Independent States in the Field of the Peaceful Use of Atomic Energy from September 14, 2007, The Strategy for the Economic Development of the Commonwealth of Independent States for the Period up to 2020, approved by the Decision of the Council of CIS Heads of Government of November 14, 2008, The Framework Program for Cooperation of the CIS Member States in the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy for the Period until 2020 "ATOM-CIS COOPERATION" adopted by the Decision of the Council of CIS Heads of Government on May 19, 2011,
Considering the significant role of the nuclear industry in the economic and social development of the CIS member states,
Recognizing the importance of ensuring the coordinated work of the nuclear industries of the CIS member states,
Taking into account the joint interest in the effective solution of pressing issues in the nuclear industry of the CIS member states,
Based on the need to strengthen nuclear and radiation safety by improving regulatory instruments and transition to new innovative technologies that meet the requirements of sustainable development, non-proliferation and guaranteed nuclear and radiation safety,
In order to effectively fulfill obligations under international treaties to which their states are parties,
Have agreed as follows:
Article 1
The Parties shall take agreed measures to ensure effective coordination of joint actions aimed at sustainable development of the atomic energy of the states parties to this Agreement, and to facilitate the implementation of international treaties concluded within the CIS and decisions of the supreme bodies of the CIS in the field of peaceful use of atomic energy.
Article 2
The Parties shall contribute to ensuring the stable operation and strengthening of the safety of nuclear facilities for peaceful purposes (hereinafter referred to as facilities), the implementation of joint measures to prevent nuclear accidents, and the organization of mutual assistance in maintaining the reliability of the facilities in emergency situations.
The Parties interact on the issues of convergence of national norms and rules contributing to ensuring nuclear and radiation safety of facilities, taking into account the standards of the International Atomic Energy Agency and the international obligations of the states parties to this Agreement.
Article 3
The Parties shall promote the development of a system of legal and technical regulation in the field of peaceful use of atomic energy, taking into account the standards of the International Atomic Energy Agency and the international obligations of the states parties to this Agreement, and take measures to develop common approaches to the establishment of mandatory safety requirements, standardization, conformity assessment and metrological assurance in order to ensure reliable and safe operation of facilities and create favorable conditions for cooperation between the states parties to this Agreement.
The Parties shall promote the coordination of activities for the development and approximation of safety standards and rules during the placement, design, construction, operation, commissioning and decommissioning of facilities, the design and manufacture of equipment for them, as well as for the development of guidelines for the adaptation and implementation of these standards and rules.
The Parties shall ensure compliance with measures for the legal protection of intellectual property, including ensuring the confidentiality and secrecy of information of a relevant nature in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the states parties to this Agreement.
Article 4.
The Parties coordinate their interaction in jointly resolving issues related to actions in emergency situations, compliance with nuclear and radiation safety requirements in the development of uranium deposits, reprocessing of nuclear fuel, radioactive waste management and implementation of measures for the rehabilitation of radiation-contaminated areas in the member states of this Agreement.
Article 5.
The Parties shall promote the development of the technological and scientific-technical base of the states parties to this Agreement, new technologies and the introduction of innovations in the field of the use of atomic energy for peaceful purposes, taking into account their priority and potential contribution to the modernization of the economy.
The Parties develop cooperation in the field of scientific and technical research and development, joint research and development work, exchange of technical documentation and scientific and technical information in accordance with the legislation of the states parties to this Agreement.
The parties interact in the development and implementation of joint interstate bilateral and multilateral projects, events and programs in the field of the nuclear fuel cycle and the nuclear power complex, including in the development of uranium deposits, the manufacture of nuclear fuel, safe management of radioactive waste and spent sources of ionizing radiation, reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel, design, construction and safe operation of nuclear installations and facilities for radioactive waste management, development of technological developments and solutions aimed at increasing the efficiency of cooperation, in accordance with the international obligations of the states parties to this Agreement in the field of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
Article 6.
The Parties shall promote the development of an intellectual property management system in the field of peaceful use of atomic energy, ensure interaction in the field of preservation and management of knowledge, creation and development of information systems through the formation and exchange of appropriate information resources. Intellectual property management is understood as a set of processes for organizing and coordinating work on the procedures for registration, confirmation, acquisition, transfer, protection and other organizational and procedural support of copyright for materials involved in information exchange procedures.
Article 7
The parties interact in developing common approaches to providing organizations operating facilities with highly qualified personnel, promote the implementation of joint scientific and technical training and advanced training of specialists, technical and educational-methodological support of training, including in the format of international cooperation programs in the field of atomic energy for peaceful purposes.
Article 8
Each Party determines the authorized (competent) body, which is entrusted with the implementation of this Agreement, and informs the depositary of this Agreement about it simultaneously with notification of the implementation of the domestic procedures necessary for its entry into force.
The functions of an authorized (competent) body may be performed by a ministry, department, state corporation or other organization that coordinates the activities of a Party in the field of peaceful use of atomic energy.
In the event of a change in the authorized (competent) body, the relevant Party within 30 calendar days shall inform the depositary of this Agreement about it.
Article 9.
Coordination of interaction of authorized (competent) bodies for the implementation of this Agreement is carried out by the Commission of the Member States of the Commonwealth of Independent States on the use of atomic energy for peaceful purposes.
When preparing and implementing joint projects, authorized (competent) bodies, if necessary, determine an agreed list of objects.
Article 10.
This Agreement does not affect the rights and obligations of each of the Parties arising from other international treaties to which its state is a party.
Article 11.
By agreement of the Parties, this Agreement may be amended and supplemented, which are its integral part, which are drawn up by the appropriate protocol.
Article 12.
Disputes between the Parties arising from the application and interpretation of this Agreement shall be resolved through consultations and negotiations between the Parties concerned or through another procedure agreed by the Parties.
Article 13.
This Agreement shall enter into force upon the expiration of 30 days from the date of receipt by the depositary of the third notification of the implementation by the signatories of the internal state procedures necessary for its entry into force.
For Parties that have completed their domestic procedures later, this Agreement shall enter into force 30 days after the date of receipt of the relevant documents by the depositary.
Article 14
After its entry into force, this Agreement is open for accession by any CIS member state by transferring the accession document to the depositary.
For the acceding state, this Agreement shall enter into force upon the expiration of 30 days from the date of receipt of the document of accession by the depositary.
Article 15.
This Agreement is concluded for an indefinite period. Each of the Parties has the right to withdraw from this Agreement by sending a written notification of such intention to the depositary no later than six months before the withdrawal and settling the obligations that arose during the validity of this Agreement.
Done in the city of Minsk on May 31, 2013 in one original copy in Russian. The original copy of this Agreement is kept by the Executive Committee of the Commonwealth of Independent States, which will send a certified copy to each state that has signed this Agreement.
For the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan
For the Government of the Republic of Armenia
For the Government of the Republic of Belarus
For the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan
For the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
For the Government of the Republic of Moldova
For the Government of the Russian Federation
For the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan
For the Government of Turkmenistan
For the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan
For the Government of Ukraine 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

