
 Additional protocol to the agreement between the governments of the participant states of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) on collaboration in emergency assistance and emergency response to natural and man-made disasters   
     Filename: 8032-2005-Protocol-1998-BlackSeaEmergencyAssistance 
 Source: https://mddoc.mid.ru/api/ia/download/?uuid=52658f77-6692-48d8-98e8-1bf875d218a5     
    ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL TO THE AGREEMENT AMONG THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE PARTICIPATING STATES OF THE BLACK SEA ECONOMIC COOPERATION (BSEC) ON COLLABORATION IN EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE TO NATURAL AND MAN­ MADE DISASTERS
Source: https://mddoc.mid.ru/api/ia/download/?uuid=52658f77-6692-48d8-98e8-1bf87...
PREAMBLE
The Governments of the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) Member States - Parties to the present Additional Protocol, hereinafter referred to as "the Parties"'
According to the provisions of Articles 3, 4, S, 7 and 8 of the Agreement among the Governments of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Participating States on Collaboration in Emergency Assistance and Emergency Response to Natural and Man­ made Disasters, signed in Sochi on April 15th 1998, hereinafter referred to as "the BSEC Agreement",
Conscious of the growing role and importance of effective prevention strategies with regard to cooperation in the field of emergency assistance,
Noting the importance of more effective policy response to disasters and the requirement of practical cooperation in major risk reduction and disaster prevention as well as in enhancing action in emergency situations,
Reiterating their determination to achieve through joint efforts the constant improvement of the implementation of the provisions of the BSEC Agreement,
With a view to securing the due level of coordination of cooperation between the authorities of the Parties,
Have agreed as follows:
Article l
Establishment of a Network of Liaison Officers
The Parties shall set up the BSEC Network of Liaison Officers on Emergency Assistance, hereinafter referred to as "the Network", consisting of liaison officers appointed by Parties, as their representatives.
Article 2
Objectives
The objectives of the Network are as follows:
l. To enhance the cooperation in the field of emergency assistance and provide for coordination of interaction between the competent bodies of the Parties;
2. To establish an information exchange network among the Relevant Bodies of the Parties to effectively collaborate in emergency assistance and emergency response in accordance with the BSEC Agreement.
Article 3
Tasks and Functions
The Liaison Officers of the Network have the following tasks and functions:
1. To send the requests forwarded by other Liaison Officers to their respective countries for urgent cases in one day and for the other cases in three days, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 4 and 5 of the BSEC Agreement;
2. To send the required information to the Parties upon their requests in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of the BSEC Agreement;
3. To meet periodically to consider the trends of emergency assistance and emergency response in the region in order to identify new forms of cooperation among the Relevant Bodies of the BSEC Member States;
4. To report and propose to the respective bodies the ways of further enhancing cooperation;
5. To facilitate the exchange of practical experience among the Relevant Bodies of the Parties in the field of emergency assistance and emergency response.
Article 4
Status of the Network within the BSEC
The Network is a cooperation group in the sphere of emergency assistance, established in conformity with the provisions of Article 7 of the BSEC Agreement.
Article S
Venue of the Meetings of the Network
The Network shall hold its meetings at the BSEC Permanent International Secretariat premises, unless it is otherwise decided upon the initiative of the BSEC Chairman-in­ Office or by the decision of the Council of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs.
Article 6
Organization and Operation
1. The Network will operate in accordance with the BSEC Charter and Rules of Procedure, as well as the provisions of the BSEC Agreement.
2. Each Party to the present Additional Protocol shall appoint a Liaison Officer and his/her Alternate to the Network. ·
3. After the appointment or withdrawal of Liaison Officers to the Network, the Parties shall notify the BSEC Permanent International Secretariat in order to inform all Member States.
4. The Network shall meet periodically, at least once a year.
5. The Network shall fulfil} its tasks under the authority of the Working Group on Cooperation in Emergency Assistance and report to it.
Article 7
Expenses
All expenses of the Liaison Officers related to the implementation of the provisions of the present Additional Protocol will be met by the sending Party.
Article 8
National Contact Points
Parties will determine a national point of contact inside their competent bodies,
preferably dealing with international cooperation.
Article 9
Observers and Guests
I. Representatives of the BSEC Observer States may attend the work of the Network, in accordance with the BSEC Charter and Rules of Procedure.
2. Relevant international institutions or agencies may be invited to the meetings of the Network.
Article 10
Final Provisions
1. The present Additional Protocol shall be open for signature or accession by any BSEC Member State.
2. The BSEC Permanent International Secretariat shall be the Depository of this Additional Protocol. The original of the present Additional Protocol in a single copy in the English language shall be deposited with the Permanent International Secretariat, which shall transmit a certified copy to each Party.
3. The present Additional Protocol shall enter into force on the thirtieth day following the date, on which the third document of ratification or approval is deposited with the BSEC Permanent International Secretariat.
4. For each Party, ratifying, approving or acceding the present Additional Protocol, after the deposition of the third document of ratification, approval or accession, the present Additional Protocol shall enter into force, on the thirtieth day after the date of the deposition of the document of ratification, approval or accession by this Party.
5. Any Party may withdraw from the present Additional Protocol by written notification to the BSEC Permanent International Secretariat. Withdrawal shall take effect within three months after the date on which the withdrawal notification is received by the Permanent International Secretariat.
6 Any Party may propose amendments to the present Additional Protocol. The amendments shall be accepted upon the consent of all the Parties and shall enter into force in accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4 of the present Article.
7. Two years from the entry into force of the present Additional Protocol, the Parties will proceed to an interim review of the results yielded by the implementation of the provisions of the present Additional Protocol. A final evaluation will be made four years after its entry into force, with a view to agreeing on the necessary measures for further improvement of the cooperation.
For the Government of the Republic of Albania
For the Government of the Republic of Armenia
For the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan (signed)
For the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria (signed)
For the Government of Georgia
For the Government of the Hellenic Republic
For the Government of the Republic of Moldova
For the Government of Romania
For the Government of the Russian Federation
For the Government of Serbia and Montenegro
For the Government of the Republic of Turkey
For the Government of Ukraine
The declaration of the Republic of Azerbaijan to the Additional Protocol to the Agreement among the governments of the participating states of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) on collaboration in emergency assistance and emergency response to natural and man-made disasters
The Republic of Azerbaijan declares that non right, obligation or provision deriving from this Protocol will not apply with regard to the Republic of Armenia. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

