
 Protocol To The Convention On The International Commission For The Protection Of The Elbe   
     Filename: 1991-Protocol-1990-CommissionProtectionElbe.EN.txt 
 Source: http://www.dundee.ac.uk/iwlri/Documents/Treaties/Basin%20Specific%20and%20Bilate…     
    ﻿Protocol to the Convention of 8 October 1990 between the Governments of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic and the European Economic Community on the International Commission for the Protection of the Elbe
Source: http://www.dundee.ac.uk/iwlri/Documents/Treaties/Basin%20Specific%20and%...
THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY
AND
THE CZECH AND SLOVAK FEDERAL REPUBLIC
AND
THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY,
Having regard to the Convention of 8 October 1990 on the International Commission for the Protection of the Elbe,
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
Article 1
For the purpose of fulfilment of tasks conferred on it under the Convention, the Commission shall have legal capacity in accordance with the law obtaining at the place at which its Secretariat has its headquarters. It shall in particular have the capacity to conclude any contracts required to fulfil its tasks, to acquire and to dispose of immovable and movable property and to take part in legal proceedings. For this purpose, the Commission shall be represented by its chairman. The chairman may appoint a representative in accordance with the rules of procedure.
Article 2
This Protocol shall enter into force 30 days after the day on which all signatories have informed the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany as depository that any preconditions for the entry into force required by national laws have been fulfilled.
Done at Magdeburg, 9 December 1991.
In original copies in the German and Czech languages, each text being equally binding.
For the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany
For the Government of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic
For the European Economic Community 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

