
 Agreement On The Establishment Of The Tumen River Area Development Coordination Committee   
     Filename: 1995-TumenRiverENtxt 
 Source: https://nautilus.org/aprenet/agreement-on-the-establishment-of-the-tumen-river-a…     
    Agreement On The Establishment Of The Tumen River Area Development Coordination Committee
Source: http://www.tumenprogramme.org/lzj/tmmsc/UploadFiles/2013-07/eastnet/1995... downloaded 20210311
[Signed on 30 May 1995 and in New York on 6 December 1995 (see below) and entered into force on 6 Feb 1996, see http://en.pkulaw.cn/display.aspx?cgid=100668796&amp;lib=tax ]
The Governments of the People's Republic of Korea, the People's Republic of China, and the Russian Federation (hereinafter referred to as the "Contracting Parties"), desiring to promote and strengthen cooperation and improve coordination of development activities and trade in the Tumen River Economic Development Area have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE 1 UNDERLYING PRINCIPLES
1.1 The Contracting Parties reaffirm that their cooperation in the Tumen River Economic Development Area is based on the common interests of their governments to increase mutual benefits, to strengthen economic and technical cooperation and to attain greater growth and sustainable development for the peoples and countries in the Tumen River Economic Development Area.
1.2 The Contracting Parties shall implement this agreement of the basis of the principles of international laws governing relations between states, notably mutual respect of the sovereignty and independence of all states, equality, mutual benefit and good neighborliness.
1.3 The Contracting Parties shall work to ensure that the Tumen River Economic Development Area is attractive for international investment, trade and business.
ARTICLE 2 THE TUMEN RIVER AREA DEVELOPMENT COORDINATION COMMITTEE
2.1 The Contracting Parties shall establish a Tumen River Area Development Coordination Committee hereinafter referred to as the "Committee."
2.2 The Committee shall consult about, and provide coordination for social, legal, environmental and economic issues raised by any Contracting Party related to its sovereign rights.
2.3 The Committee shall be composed of a Government official at the Vice Ministerial level or at such other level as is determined by consensus, and three other officials from each Contracting Party.
2.4 The Committee shall provide coordination for and advice on economic development in the Tumen River Economic Development Area especially as it relates to trade and investment facilitation. The Committee shall further provide coordination for or advice to any other intergovernmental entities or organisations established by the Contracting Parties to engage in developmental activities in the Tumen River Economic Development Area.
2.5 The Committee may establish subordinate entities to facilitate its work.
2.6 The Committee shall meet twice a year in regular session. If necessary, special sessions may be convened by the Chairman at the request of a Contracting Party.
2.7 The Chairman of the Committee shall serve for one year by rotation among the Contracting Parties in alphabetical order in the English language. The venue of meetings shall be decided by consensus of the Contracting Parties.
2.8 The decisions of the Committee shall be made by consensus of the Contracting Parties.
2.9 The Secretariat of the Committee may coordinate its functions and activities with the Secretariat of the Consultative Commission for the Development of the Tumen River Economic Development Area and Northeast Asia to the extent the Committee believes such coordination will reduce expense and more effectively carry out its mission.
2.10 The working language of the Committee shall be English.
ARTICLE 3 OTHER PROVISIONS
3.1 For purposes of this Agreement, the Tumen River Economic Development Area shall mean that area in Northeast Asia within the territorial borders of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation as described in Appendix 1 hereto, i each case as may be modified from time to time by such Contracting Party in its sole discretion upon notice to the other Contracting Parties.
3.2 This Agreement shall be subject to the legal procedures of each Contracting Party's domestic law and shall enter into force on the date of the deposit of the last instrument of such procedure by a Contracting Party with the Secretary General of the United Nations.
3.3 This Agreement shall be valid for a period of ten years from the date of entry into force and be renewed for successive periods of ten years, unless agreed otherwise by the Contracting Parties.
3.4 Any Contracting Party may propose an amendment to this Agreement. Amendment proposals shall be submitted to the Chairman of the Committee who shall transmit them to Contracting Parties within thirty (30) days of receipt, and such proposals shall be considered at the earliest feasible regular session of the Committee. Adoption of an amendment shall be by consensus of the Contracting Parties.
3.5 Any Contracting Party may withdraw from this Agreement by giving a written notice of withdrawal to the other Contracting Parties six (6) months in advance. At the end of such period, the withdrawal of such Contracting Party shall become effective.
This Agreement, done in the English language on 30 May 1995, in Beijing, shall be deposited with the Secretary General of the United Nations, who shall transmit a copy to each Contracting Party and shall register this Agreement with the Secretariat of the United Nations.
For the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea Signature:
For the Government of the People's Republic of China Signature:
For the Government of the Russian Federation: Signature:
Signed in New York on 6 December 1995 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

