
 Amendment of Annexes 2 and 3 and Table 1 to the Agreement On The Conservation Of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds   
     Filename: 2015-amendments-1995-agreementconservationafrican-eurasianmigratorywaterbirdsentxt. 
 Source: http://www.unep-aewa.org/en/document/adoption-amendments-aewa-annexes-2     
    Amendment of Annexes 2 and 3 and Table 1 to the Agreement On The Conservation Of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds
Source: http://www.unep-aewa.org/sites/default/files/document/aewa_mop6_res1_ado..., downloaded 20170508
RESOLUTION 6.1: ADOPTION OF AMENDMENTS TO THE AEWA ANNEXES
Recalling Article X of the Agreement concerning the procedures for amendments to the Agreement and its annexes,
Further recalling Resolution 4.11 which, inter alia, requested the Technical Committee to review taxonomic classifications of birds and suggest the most appropriate classification for the purposes of the Agreement, including application to Annex 2,
Recognising the work of the Technical Committee and the Secretariat over the past two triennia to address this request and their involvement and input into the work of the CMS Scientific Council Intersessional Working Group on Bird Taxonomy and Nomenclature from 2009 to 2011 and the Ad Hoc Meeting on Harmonisation of Bird Taxonomy which was convened by the Chair of the CMS Scientific Council in Formia, Italy on 8 October 2013,
Noting the CMS Resolution 11.19 on the Taxonomy and Nomenclature of Birds Listed on the CMS Appendices adopted by COP11 (4-9 November 2014, Quito, Ecuador),
Taking into account the recommendation of the Technical Committee, provided at its 12th Meeting on 3-6 March 2015 in Bonn, Germany, on the most appropriate classification for the purposes of the Agreement,
Taking into account the findings of the sixth edition of the Report on the Conservation Status of Migratory Waterbirds in the Agreement Area (document AEWA/MOP 6.14),
Acknowledging the proposals for amendments to Annex 2 and Annex 3 (Table 1) submitted by the Government of Norway and the comments received from Contracting Parties concerning these proposals, all of which are presented in the document AEWA/MOP 6.22,
Acknowledging the recent global Red Listing of the Common Eider (Somateria mollissima), Common Pochard (Aythya ferina), Horned Grebe (Podiceps auritus), Eurasian Oystercatcher (Haematopus ostralegus), Northern Lapwing (Vanellus vanellus), Bar-tailed Godwit (Limosa lapponica), Red Knot (Calidris canutus), Curlew Sandpiper (Calidris ferruginea), Armenian Gull (Larus armenicus), Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica) and Razorbill (Alca torda), and noting the importance of considering the implications of these changes in listings for MOP7.
The Meeting of the Parties:
1. Adopts the reference recommended by the 12th Meeting of the Technical Committee as the AEWA standard reference for waterbird species taxonomy and nomenclature: Handbook of the Birds of the World/BirdLife International Illustrated Checklist of the Birds of the World, Volume 1: Non-passerines, by Josep del Hoyo, Nigel J. Collar, David A. Christie, Andrew Elliot and Lincoln D.C. Fishpool (2014);
2. Decides to amend the list of waterbird species to which the Agreement applies in Annex 2 to the Agreement, as presented in Appendix I to this Resolution, following the adoption of the new standard reference for waterbird species taxonomy and nomenclature;
3. Decides to amend Annex 3 to the Agreement by replacing the current Table 1 of the Action Plan and the associated explanatory text with the Table and explanatory text set out in Appendix II to this Resolution;
4. Requests the Secretariat and the Depositary to incorporate all approved amendments into Annexes 2 and 3 to the Agreement and to update and disseminate the revised English and French language (online and hard copy) versions in a timely manner and encourages the Secretariat and the Depositary to have the Arabic and Russian language versions revised, according to resources available;
5. Requests the Technical Committee to monitor the changes in the waterbird species taxonomy and nomenclature to be reflected in the adopted AEWA standard taxonomic and nomenclature reference and to advise on the updates of Annex 2 to the Agreement, when appropriate.
Annex 2
Waterbird species to which the Agreement applies
Family ANATIDAE (ducks, geese, swans)
Dendrocygna viduata -- White faced Whistling-duck
Dendrocygna bicolor -- Fulvous Whistling duck
Thalassornis leuconotus -- White backed Duck
Oxyura maccoa -- Maccoa Duck
Oxyura leucocephala -- White headed Duck
Cygnus olor -- Mute Swan
Cygnus cygnus -- Whooper Swan
Cygnus columbianus -- Tundra Swan
Branta bernicla -- Brent Goose
Branta leucopsis -- Barnacle Goose
Branta ruficollis -- Red breasted Goose
Anser anser -- Greylag Goose
Anser fabalis -- Bean Goose
Anser brachyrhynchus -- Pink footed Goose
Anser albifrons -- Greater White fronted Goose
Anser erythropus -- Lesser White fronted Goose
Clangula hyemalis -- Long tailed Duck
Somateria spectabilis -- King Eider
Somateria mollissima -- Common Eider
Polysticta stelleri -- Steller's Eider
Melanitta fusca -- Velvet Scoter
Melanitta nigra -- Common Scoter
Bucephala clangula -- Common Goldeneye
Mergellus albellus -- Smew
Mergus merganser -- Goosander
Mergus serrator -- Red breasted Merganser
Alopochen aegyptiaca -- Egyptian Goose
Tadorna tadorna -- Common Shelduck
Tadorna ferruginea -- Ruddy Shelduck
Tadorna cana -- South African Shelduck
Plectropterus gambensis -- Spur winged Goose
Sarkidiornis melanotos -- African Comb Duck
Nettapus auritus -- African Pygmy goose
Marmaronetta angustirostris -- Marbled Teal
Netta rufina -- Red crested Pochard
Netta erythrophthalma -- Southern Pochard
Aythya ferina -- Common Pochard
Aythya nyroca -- Ferruginous Pochard
Aythya fuligula -- Tufted Duck
Aythya marila -- Greater Scaup
Spatula querquedula -- Garganey
Spatula hottentota -- Hottentot Teal
Spatula clypeata -- Northern Shoveler
Mareca strepera -- Gadwall
Mareca penelope -- Eurasian Wigeon
Anas undulata -- Yellow billed Duck
Anas platyrhynchos -- Mallard
Anas capensis -- Cape Teal
Anas erythrorhyncha -- Red billed Teal
Anas acuta -- Northern Pintail
Anas crecca -- Common Teal
Family PODICIPEDIDAE (grebes)
Tachybaptus ruficollis -- Little Grebe
Podiceps grisegena -- Red necked Grebe
Podiceps cristatus -- Great Crested Grebe
Podiceps auritus -- Horned Grebe
Podiceps nigricollis -- Black-necked Grebe
Family PHOENICOPTERIDAE (flamingos)
Phoenicopterus roseus -- Greater Flamingo
Phoeniconaias minor -- Lesser Flamingo
Family PHAETHONTIDAE (tropicbirds)
Phaethon aetheras -- Red-billed Tropicbird
Phaethon rubricauda -- Red-tailed Tropicbird
Phaethon lepturus -- White-tailed Tropicbird
Family RALLIDAE (rails, gallinules, coots)
Sarothrura elegans -- Buff-spotted Flufftail
Sarothrura boehmi -- Streaky breasted Flufftail
Sarothrura ayresi -- White-winged Flufftail
Rallus aquaticus -- Western Water Rail
Rallus caerulescens -- African Rail
Crex egregia -- African Crake
Crex crex -- Corncrake
Porzana porzana -- Spotted Crake
Zapornia flavirostra -- Black Crake
Zapornia parva -- Little Crake
Zapornia pusilla -- Baillon's Crake
Amaurornis marginalis -- Striped Crake
Porphyrio alleni -- Allen’s Gallinule
Gallinula chloropus -- Common Moorhen
Gallinula angulata -- Lesser Moorhen
Fulica cristata -- Red-knobbed Coot
Fulica atra -- Common Coot
Family GRUIDAE (cranes)
Balearica regulorum -- Grey Crowned-crane
Balearica pavonina -- Black Crowned-crane
Leucogeranus leucogeranus -- Siberian Crane
Bugeranus carunculatus -- Wattled Crane
Anthropoides paradiseus -- Blue Crane
Anthropoides virgo -- Demoiselle Crane
Grus grus -- Common Crane
Family GAVIIDAE (loons / divers)
Gavia stellata -- Red throated Loon
Gavia arctica -- Black-throated Loon
Gavia immer -- Common Loon
Gavia adamsii -- Yellow billed Loon
Family SPHENISCIDAE (penguins)
Spheniscus demersus -- African Penguin
Family CICONIIDAE (storks)
Leptoptilos crumenifer -- Marabou
Mycteria ibis -- Yellow billed Stork
Anastomus lamelligerus -- African Openbill
Ciconia nigra -- Black Stork
Ciconia abdimii -- Abdim’s Stork
Ciconia microscelis -- African Woollyneck
Ciconia ciconia -- White Stork
Family THRESKIORNITHIDAE (ibises, spoonbills)
Platalea alba -- African Spoonbill
Platalea leucorodia -- Eurasian Spoonbill
Threskiornis aethiopicus -- African Sacred Ibis
Geronticus eremita -- Northern Bald Ibis
Plegadis falcinellus -- Glossy Ibis
Family ARDEIDAE (herons)
Botaurus stellaris -- Eurasian Bittern
Ixobrychus minutus -- Common Little Bittern
Ixobrychus sturmii -- Dwarf Bittern
Nycticorax nycticorax -- Black-crowned Night-heron
Ardeola ralloides -- Squacco Heron
Ardeola idae -- Madagascar Pond heron
Ardeola rufiventris -- Rufous bellied Heron
Bubulcus ibis -- Cattle Egret
Ardea cinerea -- Grey Heron
Ardea melanocephala -- Black-headed Heron
Ardea purpurea -- Purple Heron
Ardea alba -- Great White Egret
Ardea brachyrhyncha -- Yellow-billed Egret
Egretta ardesiaca -- Black Heron
Egretta vinaceigula -- Slaty Egret
Egretta garzetta -- Little Egret
Egretta gularis -- Western Reef-egret
Family BALAENICIPITIDAE (shoebill)
Balaeniceps rex -- Shoebill
Family PELECANIDAE (pelicans)
Pelecanus crispus -- Dalmatian Pelican
Pelecanus rufescens -- Pink-backed Pelican
Pelecanus onocrotalus -- Great White Pelican
Family FREGATIDAE (frigatebirds)
Fregata ariel -- Lesser Frigatebird
Fregata minor -- Great Frigatebird
Family SULIDAE (gannets, boobies)
Morus bassanus -- Northern Gannet
Morus capensis -- Cape Gannet
Sula dactylatra -- Masked Booby
Family PHALACROCORACIDAE (cormorants)
Microcarbo coronatus -- Crowned Cormorant
Microcarbo pygmaeus -- Pygmy Cormorant
Phalacrocorax carbo -- Great Cormorant
Phalacrocorax capensis -- Cape Cormorant
Phalacrocorax nigrogularis -- Socotra Cormorant
Phalacrocorax neglectus -- Bank Cormorant
Family BURHINIDAE (thick-knees)
Burhinus senegalensis -- Senegal Thick-knee
Family PLUVIANIDAE (Egyptian plover)
Pluvianus aegyptius -- Egyptian Plover
Family HAEMATOPODIDAE (oystercatchers)
Haematopus moquini -- African Oystercatcher
Haematopus ostralegus -- Eurasian Oystercatcher
Family RECURVIROSTRIDAE (avocets, stilts)
Recurvirostra avosetta -- Pied Avocet
Himantopus himantopus -- Black winged Stilt
Family CHARADRIIDAE (plovers)
Pluvialis squatarola -- Grey Plover
Pluvialis apricaria -- Eurasian Golden Plover
Pluvialis fulva -- Pacific Golden Plover
Eudromias morinellus -- Eurasian Dotterel
Charadrius hiaticula -- Common Ringed Plover
Charadrius dubius -- Little Ringed Plover
Charadrius pecuarius -- Kittlitz's Plover
Charadrius tricollaris -- African Three banded Plover
Charadrius forbesi -- Forbes's Plover
Charadrius marginatus -- White fronted Plover
Charadrius alexandrinus -- Kentish Plover
Charadrius pallidus -- Chestnut banded Plover
Charadrius mongolus -- Lesser Sandplover
Charadrius leschenaultii -- Greater Sandplover
Charadrius asiaticus -- Caspian Plover
Vanellus vanellus -- Northern Lapwing
Vanellus spinosus -- Spur winged Lapwing
Vanellus albiceps -- White headed Lapwing
Vanellus lugubris -- Senegal Lapwing
Vanellus melanopterus -- Black winged Lapwing
Vanellus coronatus -- Crowned Lapwing
Vanellus senegallus -- Wattled Lapwing
Vanellus superciliosus -- Brown chested Lapwing
Vanellus gregarius -- Sociable Lapwing
Vanellus leucurus -- White tailed Lapwing
Family SCOLOPACIDAE (sandpipers, snipes, phalaropes)
Numenius phaeopus -- Whimbrel
Numenius tenuirostris -- Slender billed Curlew
Numenius arquata -- Eurasian Curlew
Limosa lapponica -- Bar tailed Godwit
Limosa limosa -- Black tailed Godwit
Arenaria interpres -- Ruddy Turnstone
Calidris tenuirostris -- Great Knot
Calidris canutus -- -- Red Knot
Calidris pugnax -- Ruff
Calidris falcinellus -- Broad billed Sandpiper
Calidris ferruginea -- Curlew Sandpiper
Calidris temminckii -- Temminck's Stint
Calidris alba -- Sanderling
Calidris alpina -- Dunlin
Calidris maritima -- Purple Sandpiper
Calidris minuta -- Little Stint
Scolopax rusticola -- Eurasian Woodcock
Gallinago stenura -- Pintail Snipe
Gallinago media -- Great Snipe
Gallinago gallinago -- Common Snipe
Lymnocryptes minimus -- Jack Snipe
Phalaropus lobatus -- Red necked Phalarope
Phalaropus fulicarius -- Red Phalarope
Xenus cinereus -- Terek Sandpiper
Actitis hypoleucos -- Common Sandpiper
Tringa ochropus -- Green Sandpiper
Tringa erythropus -- Spotted Redshank
Tringa nebularia -- Common Greenshank
Tringa totanus -- Common Redshank
Tringa glareola -- Wood Sandpiper
Tringa stagnatilis -- Marsh Sandpiper
Family DROMADIDAE (crab-plover)
Dromas ardeola -- Crab-plover
Family GLAREOLIDAE (coursers, pratincoles)
Glareola pratincola -- Collared Pratincole
Glareola nordmanni -- Black winged Pratincole
Glareola ocularis -- Madagascar Pratincole
Glareola nuchalis -- Rock Pratincole
Glareola cinerea -- Grey Pratincole
Family LARIDAE (gulls, terns, skimmers)
Anous stolidus -- Brown Noddy
Anous tenuirostris -- Lesser Noddy
Rynchops flavirostris -- African Skimmer
Hydrocoloeus minutus -- Little Gull
Xema sabini -- Sabine’s Gull
Rissa tridactyla -- Black-legged Kittiwake
Larus genei -- Slender billed Gull
Larus ridibundus -- Black-headed Gull
Larus hartlaubii -- Hartlaub’s Gull
Larus cirrocephalus -- Grey-headed Gull
Larus ichthyaetus -- Pallas’s Gull
Larus melanocephalus -- Mediterranean Gull
Larus hemprichii -- Sooty Gull
Larus leucophthalmus -- White-eyed Gull
Larus audouinii -- Audouin's Gull
Larus canus -- Mew Gull
Larus dominicanus -- Kelp Gull
Larus fuscus -- Lesser Black-backed Gull
Larus argentatus -- European Herring Gull
Larus armenicus -- Armenian Gull
Larus michahellis -- Yellow-legged Gull
Larus cachinnans -- Caspian Gull
Larus glaucoides -- Iceland Gull
Larus hyperboreus -- Glaucous Gull
Larus marinus -- Great Black-backed Gull
Onychoprion fuscatus -- Sooty Tern
Onychoprion anaethetus -- Bridled Tern
Sternula albifrons -- Little Tern
Sternula saundersi -- Saunders's Tern
Sternula balaenarum -- Damara Tern
Gelochelidon nilotica -- Common Gull billed Tern
Hydroprogne caspia -- Caspian Tern
Chlidonias hybrida -- Whiskered Tern
Chlidonias leucopterus -- White winged Tern
Chlidonias niger -- Black Tern
Sterna dougallii -- Roseate Tern
Sterna hirundo -- Common Tern
Sterna repressa -- White cheeked Tern
Sterna paradisaea -- Arctic Tern
Sterna vittata -- Antarctic Tern
Thalasseus bengalensis -- Lesser Crested Tern
Thalasseus sandvicensis -- Sandwich Tern
Thalasseus maximus -- Royal Tern
Thalasseus bergii -- Greater Crested Tern
Family STERCORARIIDAE (skuas)
Stercorarius longicaudus -- Long-tailed Jaeger
Catharacta skua -- Great Skua
Family ALCIDAE (auks)
Fratercula arctica -- Atlantic Puffin
Cepphus grylle -- Black Guillemot
Alca torda -- Razorbill
Alle alle -- Little Auk
Uria lomvia -- Thick-billed Murre
Uria aalge -- Common Murre
Annex 3
Table 1 a/
STATUS OF THE POPULATIONS OF MIGRATORY WATERBIRDS
KEY TO CLASSIFICATION
The following key to Table 1 is a basis for implementation of the Action Plan:
Column A
Category 1: 
(a) Species, which are included in Appendix I to the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory species of Wild Animals;
(b) Species, which are listed as threatened on the IUCN Red list of Threatened Species, as reported in the most recent summary by BirdLife International; or
(c) Populations, which number less than around 10,000 individuals.
Category 2: Populations numbering between around 10,000 and around 25,000 individuals.
Category 3: Populations numbering between around 25,000 and around 100,000 individuals and considered to be at risk as a result of:
(a) Concentration onto a small number of sites at any stage of their annual cycle;
(b) Dependence on a habitat type, which is under severe threat;
(c) Showing significant long-term decline; or
(d) Showing large fluctuations in population size or trend.
Category 4: Species, which are listed as Near Threatened on the IUCN Red List of Threatened species, as reported in the most recent summary by BirdLife International, but do not fulfil the conditions in respect of Category 1, 2 or 3, as described above, and which are pertinent for international action.
For species listed in Categories 2, 3 and 4 above, see paragraph 2.1.1 of the Action Plan contained in Annex 3 to the Agreement.
Column B
Category 1: Populations numbering between around 25,000 and around 100,000 individuals and which do not fulfil the conditions in respect of Column A, as described above.
Category 2: Populations numbering more than around 100,000 individuals, which do not fulfil the conditions in respect of Column A, and considered to be in need of special attention as a result of:
(a) Concentration onto a small number of sites at any stage of their annual cycle;
(b) Dependence on a habitat type, which is under severe threat;
(c) Showing significant long-term decline; or
(d) Showing large fluctuations in population size or trend.
Column C
Category 1: Populations numbering more than around 100,000 individuals which could significantly benefit from international cooperation and which do not fulfil the conditions in respect of either Column A or Column B, above.
REVIEW OF TABLE 1
The Table shall be:
(a) Reviewed regularly by the Technical Committee in accordance with article VII, paragraph 3(b), of the Agreement; and
(b) Amended as necessary by the Meeting of the Parties, in accordance with article VI, paragraph 9(d) of the Agreement, in light of the conclusions of such reviews.
DEFINITION OF GEOGRAPHICAL TERMS USED IN RANGE DESCRIPTIONS
Note that waterbird ranges respect biological, not political, boundaries and that precise alignment of biological and political entities is extremely unusual. The range descriptions used have no political significance and are for general guidance only, and for concise, mapped summaries of waterbird ranges, practitioners should consult the Critical Site Network Tool internet portal:
http://wow.wetlands.org/informationflyway/criticalsitenetworktool/tabid/...
North Africa: Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia.
West Africa: Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cabo Verde, Chad, Côte d'Ivoire, the Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo.
Eastern Africa: Burundi, Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, Uganda, the United Republic of Tanzania.
North-west Africa: Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia.
North-east Africa: Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan.
Southern Africa: Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
Central Africa: Cameroon, Central African Republic, Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Sao Tome and Principe.
Sub-Saharan Africa: All African states south of the Sahara.
Tropical Africa: Sub-Saharan Africa excluding Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa and Swaziland.
Western Palearctic: As defined in Handbook of the Birds of Europe, the Middle East and North Africa (Cramp &amp; Simmons 1977).
North-west Europe: Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Western Europe: North-west Europe with Portugal and Spain.
North-east Europe: The northern part of the Russian Federation west of the Urals.
North Europe: North-west Europe and North-east Europe, as defined above.
Eastern Europe: Belarus, the Russian Federation west of the Urals, Ukraine.
Central Europe: Austria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Germany, Hungary, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Poland, the Russian Federation around the Gulf of Finland and Kaliningrad, Slovakia, Switzerland.
South-west Europe: Mediterranean France, Italy, Malta, Monaco, Portugal, San Marino, Spain.
South-east Europe: Albania, Armenia, Bosnia &amp; Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Georgia, Greece, FYR Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia and Turkey.
South Europe: South-west Europe and South-east Europe, as defined above.
North Atlantic: Faroes, Greenland, Iceland, Ireland, Norway, the north-west coast of the Russian Federation, Svalbard, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
East Atlantic: Atlantic seaboard of Europe and North Africa from northern Norway to Morocco.
Western Siberia: The Russian Federation east of the Urals to the Yenisey River and south to the Kazakhstan border.
Central Siberia: The Russian Federation from the Yenisey River to the eastern boundary of the Taimyr Peninsula and south to the Altai Mountains.
West Mediterranean: Algeria, France, Italy, Malta, Monaco, Morocco, Portugal, San Marino, Spain, Tunisia.
East Mediterranean: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Cyprus, Egypt, Greece, Israel, Lebanon, Libya, Montenegro, Serbia, Slovenia, the Syrian Arab Republic, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey.
Black Sea: Armenia, Bulgaria, Georgia, Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian Federation, Turkey, Ukraine.
Caspian: Azerbaijan, Islamic Republic of Iran, Kazakhstan, South-west Russia, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan.
South-west Asia: Bahrain, Iraq, Islamic Republic of Iran, Israel, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the Syrian Arab Republic, eastern Turkey, Turkmenistan, the United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Yemen.
Gulf: the Persian Gulf, Gulf of Oman and Arabian Sea west to the Gulf of Aden.
Western Asia: Western parts of the Russian Federation east of the Urals and the Caspian countries.
Central Asia: Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan.
Southern Asia: Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka.
Indian Ocean: Comoros, Madagascar, Mauritius, Seychelles.
KEY TO ABBREVIATIONS AND SYMBOLS
bre: breeding 
win: wintering
N: Northern 
E: Eastern
S: Southern 
W: Western
NE: North-eastern 
NW: North-western
SE: South-eastern 
SW: South-western
(): Population status unknown. Conservation status estimated.
*: By way of exception for those populations listed in Categories 2 and 3 in Column A and which are marked by an asterisk, hunting may continue on a sustainable use basis. This sustainable use shall be conducted within the framework of special provisions of an international species action plan, which shall seek to implement the principles of adaptive harvest management (see paragraph 2.1.2 of Annex 3 to the Agreement).
NOTES
1. The population data used to compile Table 1 as far as possible correspond to the number of individuals in the potential breeding stock in the Agreement area. The status is based on the best available published population estimates.
2. Suffixes (bre) or (win) in population listings are solely aids to population identification. They do not indicate seasonal restrictions to actions in respect of these populations under the Agreement and Action Plan.
3. The brief descriptions used to identify the populations are based on the descriptions used in the most recently published edition of Waterbird Population Estimates.
4. Slash signs (/) are used to separate breeding areas from wintering areas.
5. Where a species’ population is listed in Table 1 with multiple categorisations, the obligations of the Action Plan relate to the strictest category listed.
[Editors note: Populations Chart – see original source document – Chart nor reproducible in text format] 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

