
 Amendments to Appendices I And II To The Convention On International Trade In Endangered Species Of Wild Fauna and Flora   
     Filename: 8822-2016-Amendments-CITES 
 Source: https://www.cites.org/sites/default/files/notif/E-Notif-2016-063.pdf     
    Amendments to Appendices I And II To The Convention On International Trade In Endangered Species Of Wild Fauna and Flora
Source: https://www.cites.org/sites/default/files/notif/E-Notif-2016-063.pdf Entry into force date given at https://www.cites.org/sites/default/files/notif/E-Notif-2017-030.pdf, downloaded 20200225
AMENDMENTS TO APPENDICES I AND II OF THE CONVENTION
adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its 17th meeting,
Johannesburg (South Africa), 24 September – 4 October 2016
1. In accordance with the provisions of Article XV of the Convention, the Conference of the Parties to the Convention, at its 17th meeting, held in Johannesburg, South Africa, from 24 September to 4 October 2016, considered the amendments to Appendices I and II proposed by the Parties. These proposed amendments were communicated to the contracting States of the Convention by Notification to the Parties No. 2016/043 of 26 May 2016.
2. At its 17th meeting, the Conference of the Parties took the following decisions (the abbreviation 'spp.' is used to denote all species of a higher taxon):
a) The following taxa are deleted from Appendix II of the Convention:
F A U N A CHORDATA MAMMALIA
ARTIODACTYLA
Bovidae . . . . . .Bison bison athabascae
F L O R A
BROMELIACEAE . . . . . .Tillandsia mauryana
b) The following taxa are transferred from Appendix I to Appendix II of the Convention:
F A U N A CHORDATA MAMMALIA
CARNIVORA
Felidae . . . . . .Puma concolor coryi
Puma concolor couguar
PERISSODACTYLA
Equidae . . . . . .Equus zebra zebra
AVES
PASSERIFORMES
Meliphagidae . . . . . .Lichenostomus melanops cassidix
STRIGIFORMES
Strigidae . . . . . .Ninox novaeseelandiae undulata
REPTILIA
CROCODYLIA
Crocodylidae . . . . . .Crocodylus acutus (Population of the Integrated Management District of Mangroves of the Bay of Cispata, Tinajones, La Balsa and Surrounding Areas, Department of Córdoba, Colombia)
Crocodylus porosus (Population of Malaysia) (Wild harvest restricted to the State of Sarawak; zero quota for wild specimens for the other States of Malaysia (Sabah and Peninsular Malaysia), with no change in the zero quota unless approved by the Parties)
AMPHIBIA
ANURA
Microhylidae . . . . . .Dyscophus antongilii
c) The following taxa are transferred from Appendix II to Appendix I of the Convention:
F A U N A CHORDATA MAMMALIA
PHOLIDOTA
Manidae . . . . . .Manis crassicaudata Manis culionensis Manis gigantea Manis javanica Manis pentadactyla Manis temminckii Manis tetradactyla Manis tricuspis
PRIMATES
Cercopithecidae . . . . . .Macaca sylvanus
AVES
PSITTACIFORMES
Psittacidae . . . . . .Psittacus erithacus
REPTILIA
SAURIA
Xenosauridae . . . . . .Shinisaurus crocodilurus
F L O R A
CACTACEAE . . . . . .Sclerocactus blainei1 Sclerocactus cloverae1 Sclerocactus sileri
d) The following taxa are included in Appendix I of the Convention:
F A U N A CHORDATA REPTILIA
SAURIA
Anguidae . . . . . .Abronia anzuetoi
Abronia campbelli Abronia fimbriata Abronia frosti Abronia meledona
Gekkonidae . . . . . .Cnemaspis psychedelica Lygodactylus williamsi
AMPHIBIA
ANURA
Telmatobiidae . . . . . .Telmatobius culeus
1 . . . . . .The name was amended to follow the standard nomenclature adopted by the Conference of the Parties in Resolution Conf. 12.11 (Rev. CoP17).
MOLLUSCA
GASTROPODA
STYLOMMATOPHORA
Cepolidae . . . . . .Polymita spp.
e) The following taxa are included in Appendix II of the Convention:
F A U N A CHORDATA MAMMALIA
ARTIODACTYLA
Bovidae . . . . . .Capra caucasica
REPTILIA
SAURIA
Anguidae . . . . . .Abronia spp.
(A zero export quota for wild specimens for Abronia aurita,
A. gaiophantasma, . . . . . .A. montecristoi, . . . . . .A. salvadorensis . . . . . .and
A. vasconcelosii)
Chamaeleonidae . . . . . .Rhampholeon spp.
Rieppeleon spp.
Gekkonidae . . . . . .Paroedura masobe
Lanthanotidae . . . . . .Lanthanotidae spp.
(A zero export quota for wild specimens has been established for commercial trade)
SERPENTES
Viperidae . . . . . .Atheris desaixi
Bitis worthingtoni
TESTUDINES
Trionychidae . . . . . .Cyclanorbis elegans Cyclanorbis senegalensis Cycloderma aubryi Cycloderma frenatum Rafetus euphraticus Trionyx triunguis
AMPHIBIA
ANURA
Microhylidae . . . . . .Dyscophus guineti Dyscophus insularis Scaphiophryne boribory Scaphiophryne marmorata Scaphiophryne spinosa
CAUDATA
Salamandridae . . . . . .Paramesotriton hongkongensis
ELASMOBRANCHII
CARCHARHINIFORMES
Carcharhinidae . . . . . .Carcharhinus falciformis
Entry into effect of the inclusion in Appendix II delayed by 12 months, i.e. until 4 October 2017
LAMNIFORMES
Alopiidae . . . . . .Alopias spp.
Entry into effect of the inclusion in Appendix II delayed by 12 months, i.e. until 4 October 2017
MYLIOBATIFORMES
Myliobatidae . . . . . .Mobula spp.
Entry into effect of the inclusion in Appendix II delayed by 6 months, i.e. until 4 April 2017
ACTINOPTERYGII
PERCIFORMES
Pomacanthidae . . . . . .Holacanthus clarionensis
MOLLUSCA
CEPHALOPODA
NAUTILIDA
Nautilidae . . . . . .Nautilidae spp.
F L O R A
ASPARAGACEAE . . . . . .Beaucarnea spp. LEGUMINOSAE
Fabaceae . . . . . .Dalbergia spp. (except for species included in Appendix I) (All parts and derivatives are included, except:
a) Leaves, flowers, pollen, fruits, and seeds;
b) Non-commercial exports of a maximum total weight of 10 kg. per shipment;
c) Parts and derivatives of Dalbergia cochinchinensis, which are covered by Annotation # 4;
d) Parts and derivatives of Dalbergia spp. originating and exported from Mexico, which are covered by Annotation # 6.)
Guibourtia demeusei
(All parts and derivatives are included, except:
a) Leaves, flowers, pollen, fruits, and seeds;
b) Non-commercial exports of a maximum total weight of 10 kg. per shipment;
c) Parts and derivatives of Dalbergia cochinchinensis, which are covered by Annotation # 4;
d) Parts and derivatives of Dalbergia spp. originating and exported from Mexico, which are covered by Annotation # 6.)
Guibourtia pellegriniana
(All parts and derivatives are included, except:
a) Leaves, flowers, pollen, fruits, and seeds;
b) Non-commercial exports of a maximum total weight of 10 kg. per shipment;
c) Parts and derivatives of Dalbergia cochinchinensis, which are covered by Annotation # 4;
d) Parts and derivatives of Dalbergia spp. originating and exported from Mexico, which are covered by Annotation # 6.)
Guibourtia tessmannii
(All parts and derivatives are included, except;
a) Leaves, flowers, pollen, fruits, and seeds;
b) Non-commercial exports of a maximum total weight of 10 kg. per shipment;
c) Parts and derivatives of Dalbergia cochinchinensis, which are covered by Annotation # 4;
d) Parts and derivatives of Dalbergia spp. originating and exported from Mexico, which are covered by Annotation # 6.)
Pterocarpus erinaceus
MALVACEAE . . . . . .Adansonia grandidieri
(Seeds, fruits, oil and live plants)
ZINGIBERACEAE . . . . . .Siphonochilus aethiopicus (Populations of Mozambique, South
Africa, Swaziland and Zimbabwe)
f) The following decisions were taken with regard to annotations:
F A U N A CHORDATA MAMMALIA
ARTIODACTYLA
Camelidae . . . . . .Vicugna vicugna
Replacement of the existing annotations to the populations of Argentina, Chile, Ecuador, Peru and the Plurinational State of Bolivia of the above taxon by the following:
The exclusive purpose of this annotation is to allow international trade in fibre from vicuñas (Vicugna vicugna) and its derivative products, only if the fibre comes from the shearing of live vicuñas. Trade in products derived from the fibre can only take place in accordance with the following provisions:
1. Any person or entity processing vicuña fibre to manufacture cloth and garments must request authorization from the relevant authorities of the country of origin2 to use the "vicuña country of origin" wording, mark or logo adopted by the range States of the species that are signatories to the Convention for the Conservation and Management of the Vicuña.
2. Marketed cloth or garments must be marked or identified in accordance with the following provisions:
2.1 . . . . . .For international trade in cloth made from live-sheared vicuña fibre, whether the cloth was produced inside or outside the range States of the species, the wording, mark or logo must be used so that the country of origin can be identified. The VICUÑA [COUNTRY OF ORIGIN] wording, mark or logo should take on the form as described below:
The wording, mark or logo must appear on the reverse side of the cloth. In addition, the selvages of the cloth must bear the words VICUÑA [COUNTRY OF ORIGIN].
2.2 . . . . . .For international trade in garments made from live- sheared vicuña fibre, whether the garments were produced inside or outside the range States of the species, the wording, mark or logo indicated in paragraph
2.1 must be used. This wording, mark or logo must appear on a label in the garment itself.
2 . . . . . .Countries of origin: The countries where the species occurs, that is, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador and Peru.
If the garments are produced outside the country of origin, the name of the country where the garment was produced should also be indicated, in addition to the wording, mark or logo referred to in paragraph 2.1.
3. For international trade in handicraft products made from live- sheared vicuña fibre produced inside the range States of the species, the VICUÑA [COUNTRY OF ORIGIN] - ARTESANÍA wording, mark or logo must be used as detailed below:
4. If live-sheared vicuña fibre from various countries of origin is used for the production of cloth and garments, the wording, mark or logo of each of the countries of origin of the fibre must be indicated, as detailed in paragraphs 2.1 and 2.2.
5. All other specimens shall be deemed to be specimens of species listed in Appendix I and the trade in them shall be regulated accordingly.
CARNIVORA
Felidae . . . . . .Panthera leo (African populations in Appendix II)
Maintenance in Appendix II of the above taxon with the addition of the following annotation:
A zero annual export quota is established for specimens of bones, bone pieces, bone products, claws, skeletons, skulls and teeth removed from the wild and traded for commercial purposes.
Annual export quotas for trade in bones, bone pieces, bone products, claws, skeletons, skulls and teeth for commercial purposes, derived from captive breeding operations in South Africa will be established and communicated annually to the CITES Secretariat.
REPTILIA
CROCODYLIA
Crocodylidae . . . . . .Crocodylus moreletii
Deletion of the part of the existing annotation stating “zero quota for wild specimens traded for commercial purposes” in relation to the population of Mexico of the above taxon, so that the revised annotation reads as follows:
Except the population of Belize, which is included in Appendix II with a zero quota for wild specimens traded for commercial purposes, and the population of Mexico, which is included in Appendix II.
F L O R A
THYMELAEACEAE
Aquilariaceae . . . . . .Aquilaria spp. and Gyrinops spp.
Amendment of existing annotation #14 related to the above taxa to read as follows:
All parts and derivatives, except:
a) seeds and pollen;
b) seedling or tissue cultures obtained in vitro, in solid or liquid media, transported in sterile containers;
c) fruits;
d) leaves;
e) exhausted agarwood powder, including compressed powder in all shapes;
f) finished products packaged and ready for retail trade, this exemption does not apply to wood chips, beads, prayer beads and carvings.
ZYGOPHYLLACEAE . . . . . .Bulnesia sarmientoi
Amendment of the existing annotation #11 related to the above taxon to read as follows:
Logs, sawn wood, veneer sheets, plywood, powder and extracts. Finished products containing such extracts as ingredients, including fragrances, are not considered to be covered by this annotation.
3. As a consequence of the adoption by the Conference of the Parties of a revised Annex to Resolution Conf. 12.11 (Rev. CoP16) on Standard nomenclature, containing taxonomic and nomenclature references for species included in the Appendices, some orthographic and name changes have been introduced in the revised version of Appendices I, II and III, in addition to those mentioned in paragraph 2 of this Notification.
4. In accordance with the provisions of Article XV, paragraph 1, sub-paragraph (c), of the Convention, the amendments adopted at the 17th meeting of the Conference of the Parties shall enter into force 90 days after that meeting, i.e. on 2 January 2017, for all Parties except those which make reservations in accordance with paragraph 3 of that Article.
5. In accordance with the provisions of Article XV, paragraph 3, of the Convention, and during the period of 90 days provided for by subparagraph (c) of paragraph 1 of that Article (i.e. by 2 January 2017), any Party may by notification in writing to the Depositary Government (the Government of the Swiss Confederation) make a reservation with respect to one or more amendments adopted at the 17th meeting of the Conference of the Parties. Until such reservation is withdrawn, the Party shall be treated as a State not party to the Convention with respect to trade in the species concerned. The other Parties shall then apply the provisions of Article X of the Convention to such trade with the Party having made the reservation.
6. In accordance with the provisions of Article XII, paragraph 2, subparagraph (f), of the Convention, the Secretariat shall publish an updated version of Appendices I, II and III to take into account the amendments adopted at the 17th meeting of the Conference of the Parties and the changes necessitated by the adoption of standard references mentioned under paragraph 3 above. This updated version, valid from 2 January 2017 onwards, will be distributed shortly after the present Notification.
7. The present Notification replaces Notification to the Parties No. 2016/057 of 7 November 2016. 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

