
 Amendments to Appendices I and II to the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (the inclusion of thirty-four taxa)

       Filename: 8850-2017-Amendments-1979-MigratorySpecies-IEA2896 
 Source: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/ATS/2018/22.pdf     
    Amendments to Appendices I and II to the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (the inclusion of thirty-four taxa) 
Source: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/treaties/ATS/2018/22.pdf 
The Twelfth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties (COP12) held from 23 to 28 October 2017 in Manila, the Philippines, decided on the inclusion of thirty-four taxa on the Appendices of the Convention. These taxa and the Appendices to which they were added are set out in the table contained in Annex I of this Notification. 
In accordance with Article XI, paragraph 5 of the Convention, the amendments shall enter into force for all Parties ninety days after COP12; that is on 26 January 2018, except for those Parties that make a reservation. During the period of ninety days after COP12, any Party may, by notification in writing to the Depository (the German Foreign Ministry), make a reservation with respect to an amendment, in accordance with Article XI, paragraph 6 of the Convention.
ANNEX I
Common name Latin name Appendix/ Specifications
Appendices
Mammals
Chimpanzee Pan troglodytes I and II
African Wild Ass Equus africanus I
Przewalski’s Horse Equus ferus przewalskii I
Hoary Bat Lasiurus cinereus II
Eastern Red Bat Lasiurus borealis II
Southern Red Bat Lasiurus blossevillii II
Southern Yellow Bat Lasiurus ega II
Lion Panthera leo II
Leopard Panthera pardus II
Gobi Bear Ursus arctos isabellinus I Mongolia and China
populations
Caspian Seal Pusa caspica I and II
Giraffe Giraffa camelopardalis II
Birds
Christmas Island Frigatebird
Fregata andrewsi I
Steppe Eagle Aquila nipalensis I
White-rumped Vulture Gyps bengalensis I
Indian Vulture Gyps indicus I
Slender-billed Vulture Gyps tenuirostris I
Red-headed Vulture Sarcogyps calvus I
White-backed Vulture Gyps africanus I
Cape Vulture Gyps coprotheres I
Rüppell’s Vulture Gyps rueppelli I
Hooded Vulture Necrosyrtes monachus
White-headed Vulture Trigonoceps occipitalis I
Lappet-faced Vulture Torgos tracheliotos I
Black Noddy Anous minutus worcesteri II
Yellow Bunting Emberiza sulphurata II
Great Grey Shrike Lanius excubitor excubitor II
Lesser Grey Shrike Lanius minor II European
population
Fish
Whale Shark Rhincodon typus I
Angelshark Squatina squatina I and II
Common Guitarfish Rhinobatos rhinobatos I Mediterranean
population
Common Guitarfish Rhinobatos rhinobatos II
Dusky Shark Carcharhinus obscurus II
Blue Shark Prionace glauca II
White-spotted Wedgefish
Rhynchobatus australiae II 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

