
 Adjustments to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer relating to the controlled substances in Annex C, Group I, for parties not operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5   
     Filename: 8856-2018-Adjustments-1987-MontrealProtocol 
 Source: https://treaties.un.org/doc/Publication/CN/2018/CN.601.2018-Eng.pdf     
    Decision XXX/2: Adjustments to the Montreal Protocol
Source: https://treaties.un.org/doc/Publication/CN/2018/CN.601.2018-Eng.pdf and https://ozone.unep.org/treaties/montreal-protocol/meetings/thirtieth-mee... and http://conf.montreal-protocol.org/meeting/mop/mop30/report/English/MOP30...
The Secretary-General of the United Nations, acting in his capacity as depositary, communicates the following:
At the thirtieth Meeting of the Parties to the above Protocol, held in Quito, Ecuador, from 5 to 9 November 2018, the Parties adopted, by Decision XXX/2, adjustments of production and consumption of the controlled substances listed in Group I of Annex C to the Protocol, pursuant to paragraph 9 of article 2 of the Protocol.
The text of the said adjustments is transmitted herewith in the six authentic languages of the Protocol as an annex to this notification.
Pursuant to paragraph 9 of article 2 of the Protocol, the adjustments will enter into force on the expiry of six months from the date of the present notification, i.e., on 21 June 2019.
========================
Recalling decision XIX/6 paragraph 12 which agreed to address the possibilities or need for essential use exemptions, no later than 2015 where this relates to Article 2 parties, and no later than 2020 where this relates to Article 5 parties,
Also recalling decision XIX/6 paragraph 13 which agreed to review in 2015 the need for the 0.5 per cent for servicing provided for in paragraph 3 and to review in 2025 the need for the annual average of 2.5 per cent for servicing provided for in paragraph 4 (d),
Noting the report by the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel in 2018 that highlighted the continued need of Annex C, Group I substances for laboratory and analytical uses after 2020 as well as the continued need of Annex C, Group I substances for servicing of fire protection and fire suppression equipment and some other niche applications for parties operating under Article 2 of the Protocol,
Recognizing that parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 may have needs for Annex C, Group I substances in the same applications listed in Article 2F paragraph 6 and those needs will be reviewed in accordance with paragraphs 12 and 13 of decision XIX/6,
Recognizing also the importance of parties’ efforts to encourage the development and use of alternatives to Annex C, Group I substances, 
Recalling paragraphs 6 to 8 of decision XXVIII/2 on the linkages between hydrofluorocarbon and hydrochlorofluorocarbon reduction schedules and the provision of flexibility if no other technically proven and economically viable alternatives are available and noting that under decision XXVIII/2 paragraphs 26 to 37 an exemption is available to high ambient temperature parties,
1. To adopt, in accordance with the procedure set out in paragraph 9 of Article 2 of the Montreal Protocol, the adjustments of production and consumption of the controlled substances listed in Annex C, Group I to the Protocol as set out in annex I to the report of the Thirtieth Meeting of the Parties; 
2. To encourage the development and use of alternatives to Annex C, Group I substances in the non-servicing applications set out in Article 2F, paragraphs 6 (a) (iii) and 6 (a) (iv) and 6 (b) (iii) and 6 (b) (iv) with a view to reducing and ceasing the use of Annex C, Group I substances in those applications;
3. To urge the recovery, recycling and reclamation of Annex C, Group I substances as well as the use of stocks and alternatives, where available and appropriate, in order to reduce the production and consumption of Annex C, Group I substances;
4. To request the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel to provide in its quadrennial reports to be presented to the Thirty-Fifth Meeting of the Parties in 2023 and to the Thirty-Ninth Meeting of the Parties in 2027 information on the availability of Annex C, Group I substances, including amounts available from recovery, recycling and reclamation, and best available information on country-level and total known stocks, as well as availability of alternative options for the applications described in Article 2F paragraphs 6 (a) and 6 (b); 
5. To examine the flexibility of the HCFC schedule adjustment in line with the Kigali Amendment.
Adjustments to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer relating to the controlled substances in Annex C, Group I, for parties not operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5
Article 2F, paragraph 6
The following sentence shall be added in paragraph 6 of Article 2F of the Protocol after the words "does not exceed zero." and before the word "However:":
"This paragraph will apply save to the extent that the Parties decide to permit the level of production or consumption that is necessary to satisfy uses agreed by them to be essential."
Article 2F, paragraph 6 (a)
In paragraph 6 (a) of Article 2F of the Protocol,
There shall be inserted a colon after the words "restricted to"
The words "the servicing of refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment existing on 1 January 2020;" shall be moved to a new subparagraph 6 (a) (i)
The following subparagraphs shall be inserted after the new subparagraph 6 (a) (i) 
"(ii) The servicing of fire suppression and fire protection equipment existing on 1 January 2020;
(iii) Solvent applications in rocket engine manufacturing; and
(iv) Topical medical aerosol applications for the specialised treatment of burns."
Article 2F, paragraph 6(b)
In paragraph 6 (b) of Article 2F of the Protocol,
There shall be inserted a colon after the words "restricted to"
The words "The servicing of refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment existing on 1 January 2020." shall be moved to a new subparagraph 6 (b) (i)
For the period following "2020" there shall be substituted a semicolon
The following subparagraphs shall be inserted after the new subparagraph 6 (b) (i)
"(ii) The servicing of fire suppression and fire protection equipment existing on 1 January 2020;
(iii) Solvent applications in rocket engine manufacturing; and
(iv) Topical medical aerosol applications for the specialised treatment of burns."
Article 5, paragraph 8 ter (e)
The following sentence shall be added in paragraph 8 ter (e) of Article 5 of the Protocol after the words "does not exceed zero." and before the word "However:":
"This paragraph will apply save to the extent that the Parties decide to permit the level of production or consumption that is necessary to satisfy uses agreed by them to be essential."
Article 5, paragraph 8 ter (e) (i)
In paragraph 8 ter (e) (i) of Article 5 of the Protocol,
There shall be inserted a colon after the words "restricted to"
The words "The servicing of refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment existing on 1 January 2030;" shall be moved to a new subparagraph 8 ter (e) (i) a.
The following subparagraphs shall be inserted after the new subparagraph 8 ter (e) (i) a.
"b. The servicing of fire suppression and fire protection equipment existing on 1 January 2030;
c. Solvent applications in rocket engine manufacturing; and
d. Topical medical aerosol applications for the specialized treatment of burns."
Article 5, paragraph 8 ter (e) (ii)
In paragraph 8 ter (e) (ii) of Article 5 of the Protocol,
There shall be inserted a colon after the words "restricted to"
The words "the servicing of refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment existing on 1 January 2030." shall be moved to a new subparagraph 8 ter (e) (ii) a.
For the period following "2030" there shall be substituted a semicolon
The following subparagraphs shall be inserted after the new subparagraph 8 ter (e)(ii) a.
"b. The servicing of fire suppression and fire protection equipment existing on 1 January 2030;
c. Solvent applications in rocket engine manufacturing; and
d. Topical medical aerosol applications for the specialized treatment of burns." 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

