
 Amendments to Annexes I, II and V of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 relating thereto   
     Filename: 8894-2020-Amendment to Annex for IEA#8894 
 Source: https://www.mardep.gov.hk/en/msnote/pdf/msin1922anx2.pdf     
    Amendments to Annexes I, II and V of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 relating thereto
https://www.mardep.gov.hk/en/msnote/pdf/msin1922anx2.pdf
ANNEX 3
RESOLUTION MEPC.314(74)
(adopted on 17 May 2019)
AMENDMENTS TO THE ANNEX OF THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION FOR THE PREVENTION OF POLLUTION FROM SHIPS, 1973, AS MODIFIED BY THE PROTOCOL OF 1978 RELATING THERETO
Amendments to MARPOL Annexes I, II and V (Electronic Record Books)
THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION COMMITTEE,
RECALLING Article 38(a) of the Convention on the International Maritime Organization concerning the functions of the Marine Environment Protection Committee conferred upon it by international conventions for the prevention and control of marine pollution from ships,
RECALLING ALSO article 16 of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 relating thereto (MARPOL), which specifies the amendment procedure and confers upon the appropriate body of the Organization the function of considering and adopting amendments thereto,
HAVING CONSIDERED, at its seventy-fourth session, proposed amendments to MARPOL Annexes I, II and V concerning Electronic Record Books, which were circulated in accordance with article 16(2)(a) of MARPOL,
1 ADOPTS, in accordance with article 16(2)(d) of MARPOL, amendments to MARPOL Annexes I, II and V, the text of which is set out in the annex to the present resolution;
2 DETERMINES, in accordance with article 16(2)(f)(iii) of MARPOL, that the amendments shall be deemed to have been accepted on 1 April 2020 unless prior to that date, not less than one third of the Parties or Parties the combined merchant fleets of which constitute not less than 50% of the gross tonnage of the world's merchant fleet, have communicated to the Organization their objection to the amendments;
3 INVITES the Parties to note that, in accordance with article 16(2)(g)(ii) of MARPOL, the said amendments shall enter into force on 1 October 2020 upon their acceptance in accordance with paragraph 2 above;
4 REQUESTS the Secretary-General, for the purposes of article 16(2)(e) of MARPOL, to transmit certified copies of the present resolution and the text of the amendments contained in the annex to all Parties to MARPOL;
5 REQUESTS ALSO the Secretary-General to transmit copies of the present resolution and its annex to Members of the Organization which are not Parties to MARPOL.
ANNEX
AMENDMENTS TO MARPOL ANNEXES I, II AND V
(Electronic Record Books)
MARPOL ANNEX I
REGULATIONS FOR THE PREVENTION OF POLLUTION BY OIL
Regulation 1 – Definitions
1 A new paragraph 39 is added as follows:
"39 Electronic Record Book means a device or system, approved by the Administration, used to electronically record the required entries for discharges, transfers and other operations as required under this Annex in lieu of a hard copy record book."
Regulation 17 – Oil Record Book Part I – Machinery space operations
2 The second sentence of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following:
"The Oil Record Book, whether as a part of the ship's official logbook, as an electronic record book which shall be approved by the Administration taking into account the Guidelines developed by the Organization* , or otherwise, shall be in the form specified in appendix III to this Annex."
3 In the second sentence of paragraph 4, the words "or group of electronic entries" are inserted after the words "each completed page".
Regulation 36 – Oil Record Book Part II – Cargo/ballast operations
4 The second sentence of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following:
"The Oil Record Book Part II, whether as a part of the ship's official logbook, as an electronic record book which shall be approved by the Administration taking into account the Guidelines developed by the Organization* , or otherwise, shall be in the Form specified in appendix III to this Annex."
5 In the second sentence of paragraph 5, the words "or group of electronic entries" are inserted after the words "each completed page".
MARPOL ANNEX II
REGULATIONS FOR THE CONTROL OF POLLUTION OF NOXIOUS LIQUID SUBSTANCES IN BULK
Regulation 1 – Definitions
6 A new paragraph 22 is added as follows:
"22 Electronic Record Book means a device or system, approved by the Administration, used to electronically record the required entries for discharges, transfers and other operations as required under this Annex in lieu of a hard copy record book."
Regulation 15 – Cargo Record Book
7 The existing paragraph 1 is replaced by the following:
"Every ship to which this Annex applies shall be provided with a Cargo Record Book, whether as a part of the ship's official logbook, as an electronic record book which shall be approved by the Administration taking into account Guidelines developed by the Organization* , or otherwise, in the form specified in appendix II to this Annex."
8 In the first sentence of paragraph 4, the words "or group of electronic entries" are inserted after the words "each page".
MARPOL ANNEX V
REGULATIONS FOR THE PREVENTION OF POLLUTION BY GARBAGE FROM SHIPS
Regulation 1 – Definitions
9 A new paragraph 19 is added as follows:
"19 Electronic Record Book means a device or system, approved by the Administration, used to electronically record the required entries for discharges, transfers and other operations as required under this Annex in lieu of a hard copy record book."
Regulation 10 – Placards, garbage management plans and garbage record-keeping
10 The second sentence of the chapeau of paragraph 3 is replaced by the following:
"The Garbage Record Book, whether as a part of the ship's official logbook, or as an electronic record book which shall be approved by the Administration taking into account the Guidelines developed by the Organization* , or otherwise, shall be in the form specified in appendix II to this Annex:"
11 In the second sentence of paragraph 3.1, the words "or group of electronic entries" are inserted after the words "each completed page".
* Refer to the Guidelines for the use of electronic record books under MARPOL, adopted by resolution MEPC.312(74)" 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

