
 Amendments to Annex VI of the Protocol of 1997 to Amend the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (Electronic Record Books and EEDI regulations for ice-strengthened ships)   
     Filename: 8900-2019-Amendment to Annex-2650 
 Source: http://www.imo.org/en/OurWork/Environment/BallastWaterManagement/Documents/MEPC%…     
    Amendments to the Annex of the Protocol of 1997 to Amend the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (Electronic Record Books and EEDI regulations for ice-strengthened ships)
http://www.imo.org/en/OurWork/Environment/BallastWaterManagement/Documen...
ANNEX 5
RESOLUTION MEPC.316(74)
(adopted on 17 May 2019)
AMENDMENTS TO THE ANNEX OF THE PROTOCOL OF 1997 TO AMEND THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION FOR THE PREVENTION OF POLLUTION FROM SHIPS, 1973, AS MODIFIED BY THE PROTOCOL OF 1978 RELATING THERETO
Amendments to MARPOL Annex VI
(Electronic Record Books and EEDI regulations for ice-strengthened ships)
THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION COMMITTEE,
RECALLING Article 38(a) of the Convention on the International Maritime Organization concerning the functions of the Marine Environment Protection Committee conferred upon it by international conventions for the prevention and control of marine pollution from ships,
RECALLING ALSO article 16 of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocols of 1978 and 1997 relating thereto (MARPOL), which specifies the amendment procedure and confers upon the appropriate body of the Organization the function of considering amendments thereto for adoption by the Parties,
HAVING CONSIDERED, at its seventy-fourth session, proposed amendments to MARPOL Annex VI concerning Electronic Record Books and EEDI regulations for ice-strengthened ships, which were circulated in accordance with article 16(2)(a) of MARPOL,
1 ADOPTS, in accordance with article 16(2)(d) of MARPOL, amendments to MARPOL Annex VI, the text of which is set out in the annex to the present resolution;
2 DETERMINES, in accordance with article 16(2)(f)(iii) of MARPOL, that the amendments shall be deemed to have been accepted on 1 April 2020 unless prior to that date, not less than one third of the Parties or Parties the combined merchant fleets of which constitute not less than 50% of the gross tonnage of the world's merchant fleet, have communicated to the Organization their objection to the amendments;
3 INVITES the Parties to note that, in accordance with article 16(2)(g)(ii) of MARPOL, the said amendments shall enter into force on 1 October 2020 upon their acceptance in accordance with paragraph 2 above;
4 REQUESTS the Secretary-General, for the purposes of article 16(2)(e) of MARPOL, to transmit certified copies of the present resolution and the text of the amendments contained in the annex to all Parties to MARPOL;
5 REQUESTS ALSO the Secretary-General to transmit copies of the present resolution and its annex to Members of the Organization which are not Parties to MARPOL. 
ANNEX
AMENDMENTS TO MARPOL ANNEX VI
(Electronic Record Books and EEDI regulations for ice-strengthened ships)
Regulation 2 Definitions
1 Paragraph 42 is replaced by the following:
"42 Polar Code means the International Code for Ships Operating in Polar Waters, consisting of an introduction, parts I-A and II-A and parts I-B and II-B, adopted by resolutions MSC.385(94) and MEPC.264(68), as may be amended, provided that:
.1 amendments to the environment-related provisions of the introduction and chapter 1 of part II-A of the Polar Code are adopted, brought into force and take effect in accordance with the provisions of article 16 of the present Convention concerning the amendment procedures applicable to an appendix to an annex; and
.2 amendments to part II-B of the Polar Code are adopted by the Marine Environment Protection Committee in accordance with its Rules of Procedure."
2 A new paragraph 51 is added as follows:
"51 Electronic Record Book means a device or system, approved by the Administration, used to electronically record the required entries for discharges, transfers and other operations as required under this Annex in lieu of a hard copy record book."
Regulation 12 Ozone-depleting substances
3 In the second sentence of paragraph 6, the words "recording system" are replaced by "record book ".
4 A new sentence is inserted at the end of paragraph 6 as follows:
"An electronic recording system referred to in regulation 12.6, as adopted by resolution MEPC.176(58), shall be considered an electronic record book, provided the electronic recording system is approved by the Administration on or before the first International Air Pollution Prevention (IAPP) Certificate renewal survey carried out on or after 1 October 2020, but not later than 1 October 2025, taking into account the Guidelines developed by the Organization* "
Regulation 13 Nitrogen oxides (NOX)
5 In paragraph 5.3, the words "or electronic record book*, " are inserted after the words "shall be recorded in such logbook".
" Refer to the Guidelines for the use of electronic record books under MARPOL, adopted by resolution MEPC.312(74)." 
Regulation 14 Sulphur oxides (SOX) and particulate matter
6 In the last sentence of paragraph 6, the words "or electronic record book ," are inserted after the words "shall be recorded in such logbook".
Regulation 19 Application
7 In the last sentence of paragraph 3, the words "cargo ships having ice-breaking capability" are replaced by the words "category A ships as defined in the Polar Code".
Appendix I
Form of International Air Pollution Prevention (IAPP) Certificate (Regulation 8)
8 In the introductory paragraph of Appendix I, the words "by resolution MEPC.176(58) in 2008" are deleted.
Appendix VIII
Form of International Energy Efficiency (IEE) Certificate
9 In the introductory paragraph, the words "by resolution MEPC.203(62)" are deleted.
Appendix X
Form of Statement of Compliance Fuel Oil Consumption Reporting
10 In the introductory paragraph, the word "by" between "Pollution" and "Ships" in the first sentence is replaced by the word "from".
***
" Refer to the Guidelines for the use of electronic record books under MARPOL, adopted by resolution MEPC.312(74)." 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

