
 Amendment to the Treaty Of The Southern African Development Community   
     Filename: 8970-2015-Amendment-1992-SouthernAfricanDevelopmentCommunity-IEA#3857 
 Source: https://www.sadc.int/files/1515/6525/9680/Agreement_Amending_the_Treaty_-_2015_-…     
    Agreement Amending the Treaty of the Southern African Development Community
Source: https://www.sadc.int/files/1515/6525/9680/Agreement_Amending_the_Treaty_... downloaded 20210801
Agreement Amending the Treaty of the Southern African Development Community
PREAMBLE
WE, the Heads of State or Government of:
The Republic of Angola 
The Republic of Botswana 
The Democratic Republic of Congo 
The Kingdom of Lesotho
The Republic of Madagascar
The Republic of Malawi
The Republic of Mauritius
The Republic of Mozambique
The Republic of Namibia 
The Republic of Seychelles
The Republic of South Africa
The Kingdom of Swaziland
The United Republic of Tanzania
The Republic of Zambia
The Republic of Zimbabwe 
HAVING REGARD to the objectives set forth in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Treaty;
REAFFIRMING our commitment to the principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, especially as these principles must inform corrections and prisons operations in the SADC Region;
RECOGNISING that the current corrections and prisons activities need a regional institutional framework;
CONVINCED that the Organ on Politics, Defence and Security Co-operation should also serve as a coordinating forum for regional co-operation on corrections, prisons and penitentiary operations;
REALIZING that the Treaty requires amendment to identify the institutional forum for the co-ordination of the regional corrections, prisons and penitentiary operations;
HEREBY AGREE as follows:
ARTICLE 1
Definitions
In this Agreement, the terms and expressions defined in Article 1 of the Treaty shall bear the same meaning unless the context otherwise requires.
ARTICLE 2
Amendment to Article 10A of the Treaty
Paragraph 4 of Article 10A of the Treaty is amended to read as follows:
"4. There shall be a Ministerial Committee of the Organ, consisting of the Ministers responsible for:
(a) foreign affairs; 
(b) defence;
(c) public security;
(d) state security;
(e) police; and
(f) corrections, prisons and penitentiary services,
from each of the Member States, which shall be responsible for the co-ordination of the work of the Organ and its structures."
ARTICLE 3
Entry into force
This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of signature by three quarters of all members of the Summit.
ARTICLE 4
Depositary
1. The original texts of this Agreement shall be deposited with the Executive Secretary who shall transmit certified copies to all Member States.
2. The Executive Secretary shall register this Agreement with the Secretariat of the United Nations Organisation and the Commission of the African Union.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WE, the Heads of State or Government, or our duly authorised representatives, have signed this Agreement.
Done in GABORONE, BOTSWANA this 18 day of AUGUST 2015 in three (3) original texts in the English, French and Portuguese languages, all texts being equally authentic
Republic of Angola - signed
Republic of Botswana - signed
Democratic Republic of Congo - signed
The Kingdom of Lesotho - signed
Republic of Madagascar - signed
Republic of Malawi - signed
Republic of Mauritius - NOT signed originally
Republic of Mozambique - signed
Republic of Namibia - NOT signed originally
Republic of Seychelles - signed
Republic of South Africa - signed
Kingdom of Swaziland - signed
United Republic of Tanzania - signed
Republic of Zambia - signed
Republic of Zimbabwe - signed 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

