
 Amendment to the Agreement for Co-operation in Dealing with Pollution of the North Sea by Oil and Other Harmful Substances on the Accession of the Kingdom of Spain to the Agreement   
     Filename: 9017-2019-AmendmentSpainAccession-1983-NorthSeaOilHarmfulSubstances.EN.txt-IEAS#2962 
 Source: https://zoek.officielebekendmakingen.nl/trb-2020-55.html     
    Amendment to the Agreement for Co-operation in Dealing with Pollution of the North Sea by Oil and Other Harmful Substances on the Accession of the Kingdom of Spain to the Agreement
Source: https://zoek.officielebekendmakingen.nl/trb-2020-55.html
Decision by the Contracting Parties to the Agreement for Co-operation in Dealing with Pollution of the North Sea by Oil and Other Harmful Substances on the Accession of the Kingdom of Spain to the Agreement
Source: https://zoek.officielebekendmakingen.nl/trb-2020-55.html#d17e6202 Downloaded on 20210715
The Contracting Parties to the Agreement for Co-operation in Dealing with Pollution of the North Sea by Oil and Other Harmful Substances (“the Agreement”),
Recalling Article 20 of the Agreement, which provides that the Contracting Parties may unanimously invite any other coastal State of the North East Atlantic area to accede to the Agreement, and that in such a case Article 2 of the Agreement and its Annex shall be amended as necessary,
Having expressed their unanimous intention to invite Spain to accede to the Agreement,
Welcoming the wish of Spain to accede to the Agreement,
decide by unanimous vote that
PARAGRAPH 1 – INVITATION TO SPAIN IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 20
In accordance with Article 20, the Contracting Parties unanimously invite Spain to accede to the Bonn Agreement. With regard to this invitation, the following amendments to the preamble, Article 2 and the Annex to this Agreement are adopted.
PARAGRAPH 2 – AMENDMENT OF THE PREAMBLE OF THE AGREEMENT
The preamble of the Agreement shall be amended as follows: the words “the Kingdom of Spain,” are inserted before the words “the Kingdom of Sweden”
PARAGRAPH 3 – AMENDMENT OF ARTICLE 2
Article 2 of the Agreement shall be amended so that it reads as follows:
“Article 2
For the purpose of this Agreement, the North Sea area means the area of sea comprising:
a) the North Sea proper, southwards of latitude 61°0’00.00” N,
b) the Skagerrak, the southern limit of which is determined east of the Skaw by the latitude 57°44’43.00” N,
c) the Bay of Biscay, bounded on the south and west by the line defined in Part I of the Annex to this Agreement,
d) the other waters, comprising the Irish Sea, the Celtic Sea, the Malin Sea, the Great Minch, the Little Minch, part of the Norwegian Sea, and parts of the North East Atlantic, bounded on the west and north by the line defined in Part II of the Annex to this Agreement.”
PARAGRAPH 4 – AMENDMENT OF THE ANNEX TO THE AGREEMENT.
The Annex to the Agreement shall be amended so that it reads as set out in the appendix to this decision.
PARAGRAPH 5 – ENTRY INTO FORCE
The amendments contained in this decision shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date of deposit by Spain of its instrument of accession to the Agreement.
Appendix
“Annex to the Agreement for Co-operation in Dealing with Pollution of the North Sea by Oil and Other Harmful Substances, 1983
Description of the Atlantic boundary of the North Sea area and of the zones referred to in Article 6 of this Agreement
[ED: Full text of delineation of boundaries available at source document] 
  
 
  
 Citations required for use of IEADB data:
Data from Ronald B. Mitchell. 2002-2022. International Environmental Agreements Database Project (Version 2020.1).Available at: http://iea.uoregon.edu/ Date accessed: 03 January 2022
Data described in: Ronald B. Mitchell, Liliana B. Andonova, Mark Axelrod, Jörg Balsiger, Thomas Bernauer, Jessica F. Green, James Hollway, Rakhyun E. Kim and Jean-Frédéric Morin. 2020. What We Know (and Could Know) About International Environmental Agreements. Global Environmental Politics 20:1 (February), 103-121. https://doi.org/10.1162/glep_a_00544  
Version Release Notes  
 Developed with support from:  National Science FoundationUniversity of Oregon Envl Studies ProgramUniversity of Oregon Summer Research AwardAm. Phil. Society 
 Admin Login 
 Login   

