Recognizing  that climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time, which undermines the ability of all countries, especially those developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, to achieve sustainable development and poverty eradication.   Welcoming  the adoption of the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.   Welcoming also  the signature of the Paris Agreement by more than 170 countries at a ceremony held on the 22 April 2016, in New York as well as the ratification of the agreement by 17 Parties to date.   Urging  all member states to ratify, accept or approve the Paris Agreement.   Acknowledging  that the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is the main international, intergovernmental forum for negotiating the global response to climate change and that the global nature of climate change calls for international cooperation while avoiding duplication of work,   Welcoming  the adoption of General Assembly resolution 70/1 of 25 September 2015, entitled \xe2\x80\x9cTransforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development\xe2\x80\x9d; and welcoming also the adoption of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International Conference on Financing for Development, and taking note of the Sendai framework for disasters and risk reduction.   Commending  the contribution of the United Nations Environment Programme to addressing the global challenge of climate change through its climate change subprogramme.   Recalling  its resolution 1/8, on ecosystem-based adaptation.   Noting  the importance of the global mobilization of relevant stakeholders to combat climate change and acknowledging with appreciation the results of the Lima-Paris Action Agenda.  1.  Requests  the Executive Director within the United Nations Environment Programme mandate, in collaboration with other relevant organisations and stakeholders to contribute to the implementation of pre-2020 global efforts to address the challenge of climate change by;  a) Strengthening efforts in education, training, public awareness, public participation, public access to information and cooperation,  b) Reinforcing and stepping-up the United Nations Environment Programme\xe2\x80\x99s participation in partnership programmes and initiatives.  c) Strengthening collaboration between the United Nations Environment Programme and relevant United Nations bodies and other relevant stakeholders on work related to adaptation, mitigation and the transition to a sustainable future in a manner that reinforces synergies, avoids duplication and maximizes efficiency and effectiveness.  d) Accelerating support to countries, especially developing countries, to build national readiness capacity to implement the Paris Agreement, build implementation capacity and capacity to access finance and technology.  e) Strengthening United Nations Environment Programme support to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change;  f) Strengthening United Nations Environment Programme support for and contribution to global climate change related assessments.  2.  Requests  the Executive Director to report on the implementation of the present resolution at the third session of the United Nations Environment Assembly.