The Conference of the Parties      1.  welcomes  the fruitful cooperation between the Alpine Convention and the Carpathian Convention, inter alia in the fields of biodiversity, forestry, sustainable transport, sustainable tourism, cultural heritage and environmental information, and  recommends  to enhance cooperation in the fields of public relations and joint approaches to the European Commission, to invite the full participation of the European Community in both Convention frameworks;     2.  welcomes  the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the Alpine Convention and the Carpathian Convention signed on 29 May Bonn 2008, and  recommends  to make enhanced efforts for implementation of the CBD programmes of work on mountain biodiversity and on protected areas and other relevant CBD thematic programmes of work and cross-cutting issues;     3.  welcomes  the fruitful cooperation between the Secretariat of the Ramsar Convention and the interim Secretariat of the Carpathian Convention, in particular on the Carpathian Wetlands Initiative, and calls for increased cooperation in particular concerning implementation of pilot activities for integrating land and water use in the Tisza River Basin;     4.  encourages  cooperation with the Aarhus Convention, in particular concerning the implementation of the Almaty Guidelines on Promoting the Application of the Principles of the Aarhus Convention in International Forums;     5.  requests  the interim Secretariat to approach the Division for Cultural Heritage, landscape and spatial planning of the Council of Europe to prepare and conclude a Memorandum of Cooperation between the Carpathian Convention and the European Landscape Convention;     6.  welcomes  the fruitful cooperation with UNESCO on natural, and cultural heritage and traditional knowledge, with FAO on sustainable agriculture and rural development as well as on sustainable forest management, with UNDP and ICPDR on the Tisza river GEF project, and with UNIDO on renewable energy in the Carpathians;     7.  requests  the Presidency to notify the Mountain Partnership of the wish of the Parties to enlist the Convention as a member of the Partnership, and invites Parties to the Convention, which have not yet done so, to join the Mountain Partnership;     8.  appreciates  the fruitful cooperation between the Executive Secretariat of the Central European Initiative (CEI) and the interim Secretariat of the Carpathian Convention, and recommends to further enhance cooperation in development of joint projects, inter alia in the field of sustainable transport;     9.  welcomes  the fruitful cooperation between the Carpathian EcoRegion Initiative (CERI) and the interim Secretariat of the Carpathian Convention, and recommends enhanced cooperation in supporting the future implementation of the Biodiversity Protocol;     10.  welcomes  the fruitful cooperation with other relevant international and national organizations, entities and institutions active in the Carpathian region on sustainable development promotion, awareness raising, capacity building and assisting the Parties in implementation of the Carpathian Convention including the REC for CEE, ANPED, CEEWeb, EURAC, ETE, WWF-DCP, MRI;     11.  requests  the interim Secretariat to continue to prepare and conclude Memoranda of Cooperation with other interested international organizations, MEAs, interested countries and other entities active in the areas of focus of the Carpathian Convention.