&nbsp;    The Conference of the Parties      1.&nbsp; welcomes  the work of the Working Group on Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological and Landscape Diversity,  takes note  of its report as contained in the document UNEP/CC/COP2/2, and  appreciates  the valid contributions by CERI, REC and WWF;     2.  urges  Parties within the framework of the Working Group and invites other stakeholders to ensure the proper follow-up and implementation of the present decision, and  takes into account  the recommendations produced by the Working Group;     3.  adopts  the Protocol on Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological and Landscape Diversity and invites governments to sign and ratify the Protocol;     4.  encourages  Parties, pending the ratification and entry into force of the Protocol, whenever possible to start its implementation;     5.  requests  the interim Secretariat to coordinate the preparation of a Strategic Action Plan for the implementation of the Protocol on Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological and Landscape Diversity, taking into account the work done under the auspices of the Working Group;     6.  takes note  of the proposal for a permanent arrangement for the Carpathian Network of Protected Areas (CNPA) established under the Carpathian Convention Implementation Committee (CCIC) and submitted for further consideration and decision by COP3, and  requests  the CNPA Steering Committee to further discuss and elaborate that proposal taking into account results of the Protected Areas Conference to be held on 23-24 September 2008 (in Brasov, Romania);     7.  requests  the interim Secretariat in cooperation with CNPA Steering Committee, with the support of the ALPARC and Task Force of Protected Areas of the Alpine Convention Secretariat and in collaboration with the other CNPA partners, to prepare a Work Plan and Medium Term Strategy for CNPA, and  invites  the Protected Areas Conference to consider and provide inputs to the documents;     8.  recognizes  the need for additional human, institutional and financial resources to service the Protocol on Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological and Landscape Diversity and manage the CNPA arrangements,  approves  the related arrangement and budget implications proposed by the interim Secretariat, contained in decision COP2/13;     9.  welcomes  the establishment of the Carpathian Wetlands Initiative (CWI) as an effective partnership for advancing the implementation of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Carpathian and Ramsar Conventions and  appreciates  the voluntary contributions by the governments of the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia for further development of the CWI;     10.  takes note  of the Framework for Project Development and Work plan of the CWI and  encourages  relevant partners to ensure proper implementation and funding.    &nbsp;