The Conference of the Parties   1.  Adopts  the Strategic Action Plan for the implementation of the Protocol on Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological and Landscape Diversity;  2.  Welcomes  and supports the establishment of an ecological platform for the Carpathians, the invitation of Alpine observers to the Carpathian platform, and the participation of Carpathian observers in the Alpine Platform upon invitation;  3.  Adopts  the revised Terms of Reference of the Working Group on Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological and Landscape Diversity;  4.  Welcomes  the approval of and pledges its support to the "BIOREGIO Carpathians" project, that aims at implementing the main provisions of the Protocol on Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biological and Landscape Diversity;  5.  Adopts  the Medium-Term Strategy of the Carpathian Network of Protected Areas;  6.  Adopts  the revised Terms of Reference of the Carpathian Network of Protected Areas Steering Committee;  7.  Welcomes  the assistance by Alparc and the ongoing cooperation with the Alpine Convention;  8.  Expresses  its gratitude to the World Wide Fund \xe2\x80\x93 Danube-Carpathian Programme for its cooperation in the organization of the Carpathian Network of Protected Areas Steering Committee meetings within the Protected Areas for Living Planet project supported by MAVA Foundation and for the development of the activities related to management of protected areas in the Carpathians and the establishment of a related clearing house mechanism;  9.  Encourages  the use of the Carpathian Protected Areas Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool as useful tool to support the implementation of the Carpathian Convention Biodiversity Protocol and Carpathian Network of Protected Areas activities and Convention Biodiversity Programme of Work on Protected Areas;  10.  Welcomes  the work and activities of the Carpathian Wetland Initiative in support of the implementation of the Biodiversity Protocol, welcomes the ongoing cooperation with the Ramsar Convention and urges Parties to take appropriate action on the effective protection and sustainable use of Carpathian wetlands.   &nbsp;