46. The Committee examined the document prepared by the Secretariat in this regard and congratulated the Secretariat on its clear presentation of the requests submitted. Considering the Bureau\'s recommendations, the Committee decided to approve the following requests: \n  A - TECHNICAL CO-OPERATION  \n  CULTURAL PROPERTIES  \n  1.&nbsp; Ngorongoro Conservation Area (United Republic of Tanzania)  US$49,782 Purchase of a Land Rover and radio equipment for the archaeological and paleontological site of Olduvai. \n  2.&nbsp; Studenica Monastery (Yugoslavia)  US$51,000 Purchase of computer and photographic equipment and equipment for the restoration of murals. With respect to this site, the Committee has noted with satisfaction the assurances provided by the Yugoslavian authorities that there will be no dam construction near the monastery which could jeopardize the outstanding value of this site. \n  3.&nbsp; Archaeological site of Delphi (Greece)  US$50,000 Purchase of a sandblaster and seven dehumidifiers for the restoration of objects from the site which have been placed in the Delphi museum. The Committee examined the possibility of acceding to requests concerning the conservation of objects from archaeological sites, and it asked the Secretariat to draw up a draft decision on this issue for inclusion in the Operational Guidelines, to ensure that the fund allocation limits for objects from archaeological sites protected by the World Heritage Convention are clearly defined. This draft decision is to be presented to the Bureau and Committee at their next sessions. \n  4.&nbsp; Timbuktu (Mali)  US$45,138 Consolidation of the Djingareiber mosque and improvement of terrace rainwater drainage systems. Removal of sand from the walls and interior court of the Sankore mosque, and installation of bollards to divert traffic away from the mosque. \n  5.&nbsp; International&nbsp;symposium on the&nbsp;"Preservation of Urban Historic Areas in Changing Times" (Canada)  US$26,000 Publication of the proceedings of the symposium. \n  &nbsp;  \n  NATURAL PROPERTIES  \n  1. La Amistad National Park (Panama)  US$50,000 As part of the described management plan, financing of the construction of three guard posts; purchase of field equipment and materials for environmental education activities; organization of training seminars for park guards. \n  2. Salonga   National Park (Zaire)  US$60,000 Reinforcement&nbsp; of park protection through infrastructure construction (ranger posts, jetty) and purchase of an all-terrain vehicle and small&shy;scale equipment. \n  3. Talamanca Range-La Amistad National Park (Costa Rica)    US$50,000 The Committee approved this request under two conditions: that the Costa Rican authorities report on the completion of the previous projects and that the boundaries of this property be revised in accordance with IUCN recommendations. The Committee instructed the Bureau to determine at its next session whether these conditions had been met before deciding whether to award an appropriate amount to Costa Rica. \n 47. With respect to Banc d\'Arguin National Park (Mauritania), the Committee noted that a request for technical cooperation had been submitted to the Secretariat but that this request needed to be reformulated. The Committee encouraged the Mauritanian authorities to prepare and submit a new request for consideration at its next session.