38. The representative from Brazil recalled that his country had on several previous occasions invited the Committee to host one of its sessions in Brasilia. Now that this property was inscribed on the World Heritage List, the Brazilian authorities wished to reiterate their invitation and to host the 12th session of the Committee in Brasilia in 1988. \n 39. The Committee thanked the Brazilian representative for the invitation made on behalf of his country. Many members of the Committee felt that, although most intergovernmental Unesco meetings should be held at Unesco Headquarters in Paris, there was a real advantage in holding alternate meetings of the World Heritage Committee outside Paris since this gave an excellent opportunity to make the work of the Convention better known in the host country and region. Furthermore,, the members of the Committee could have the chance to visit certain World Heritage properties and see international assistance projects at work. \n 40. The disadvantages of holding the next Committee session outside Unesco Headquarters were expressed by several Committee members who recognised that certain States Members of the Committee would face additional difficulties in ensuring their participation at a session away from Paris. In addition, the costs for the Secretariat in the 24 C/5 only covered the amounts foreseen for meetings at Unesco Headquarters. In this connection, the Brazilian representative informed the Committee that his government was willing to cover the additional costs for the Secretariat. \n 41. The Committee, taking account of the advantages and disadvantages outlined above, accepted the invitation of the Brazilian authorities to hold the 12th session of the Committee in Brasilia on the condition that an agreement could be made between Brazil and Unesco so that all additional costs for such a meeting away from Headquarters would be met by the host country. The provisional date for the session would be from 5-9 December 1988. \n &nbsp;