The Committee  noted  that the Bureau in examining the ten technical cooperation requests for cultural properties, two submitted by ICCROM and eight by States Parties, gave priority to activities for properties on the List of World Heritage in Danger and to those having a catalytic affect rather than for the funding of specific restoration works, in accordance with previous decisions taken by the Committee. \n  Reauests approved by the Bureau:  \n \n  The Historic Town of Ouro Preto (Brazil) -   US$20,000   The Bureau approved US$20,000 out of the total amount of US$50,000, subject to obtaining assurance that the balance of US$30,000 for the construction of five houses for the relocation of the affected inhabitants is funded by other sources. \n  ICCROM Technical Assistance - US$25,000  The Bureau approved this financial support to the ICCROM Technical Assistance Programme to supply institutions of State Parties, free of charge, with basic documentation, scientific and didactic equipment and conservation products. \n  Printing of  Management Guidelines for World Cultural Heritage Sites , by B.M. Feilden and J. Jokilehto - US$6,900  The Bureau approved this request to support the printing cost of the French-language edition of this publication if other sources, notably of the Fra-ncophone community cannot be identified. \n \n  Requests approved by the Committee:  \n The Committee approved the following requests on the basis of the recommendations of the Bureau: \n \n  Old City of Dubrovnik (Croatia) -   US$50,000  The Committee approved the full requested amount of  US$ 50,000  for, inter alia, the purchase of equipment for the documentation centre; expertise for the development of a tourism development plan; promotional and educational material and activities on World Heritage in Dubrovnik. \n  Wieliczka Salt Mine (Poland) -   US$100,000  The Committee approved this request for US$100,000 to purchase the dehumidifying equipment required for the preservation of the salt sculptures of this World Heritage Site in Danger. \n  Kathmandu Valley (Nepal) -   US$52,000  The Committee approved the requested  US$ 52,000  for the deployment of a UNESCO international technical advisor for 6 months in view of the serious and urgent need for strengthen measures to redress the present state of conservation of the Kathmandu Valley. \n  The Complex of the Hue Monuments (Vietnam) - US$108,000  (Upgrading of the Hue Conservation Laboratory) The Committee approved the amount of US$108,000 to meet the cost of laboratory equipment purchase (US$ 72,700) and related short-term training to enable the Hue authorities to have the basic facilities to overcome the present obstacles to conservation. The World Heritage Centre should, however, be consulted on the list of equipment, and approve the detailed specification and cost estimate; as well as the selection of the international experts. \n  Historic Areas of Istanbul (Turkey) - US$80,000  (Restoration of the mosaics of Hagia-Sophia) The Committee approved an amount of $80,000 to complete the final phase of this restoration project. \n \n  Requests not approved by the Committee:  \n \n  Ngorongoro Conservation Area (United Republic of Tanzania)  (International Conference on Ngorongoro, in Bellagio, Italy) The Committee endorsed the Bureau\'s view not to approve this request although the value of the proposed international conference in Italy for the Tanzanian conservators is recognized, and in view of the fact that other funding sources are available for this Conference at the Rockefeller Foundation in Italy. \n  Palmyra (Syrian Arab Republic)  The Committee did not approve this request for US$90,000 but suggested that the Syrian authorities submit an alternative request to prepare a global and coherent conservation programme for this site in accordance with the recommendations of the UNESCO expert mission which took place in December 1993.