B. Training  \n  Natural Heritage  \n  School for the Training of Wildlife Specialists, Garoua/Cameroon  The Committee reviewed a request for US$ 43,667 for a training seminar to be held in Cameroon in 1994. The Committee approved a sum of  US$ 35,000  pending receipt by the Centre of more detailed information and a justification of the estimated costs.&nbsp; \n  Training Course - ENGREF (France)  The Committee reviewed a request for US$ 40,000 and after considerable discussion approved a sum of  US$ 30,000  for a training course by ENGREF to be held in the Tai National Park and World Heritage site. The course was endorsed by the State Party (France). The funds are to be dispersed to facilitate the holding of the course in the World Heritage site as well as for travel and fellowships for participants from developing countries, in particular francophone Africa. \n The Centre was requested to contact the course director and to continue discussions vis-a-vis the orientation of the course in relation to the World Heritage Convention and to seek possible linkages with this course and the training school in Garoua. The Committee also requested a comprehensive report from ENGREF on the outcome of the course and the content related to protection and management of World Heritage sites. \n   Cultural Heritage  \n  Reqional training course of Maghreb architects for the conservation and protection of cultural monuments and sites (1994-1995), Tunisia  The Committee approved a request of  US$ 50,000  for a regional training course for architects from countries in the Maghreb that will be held in Tunisia in 1994-1995. The course will be implemented by the National Heritage Institute of Tunisia in collaboration with ICCROM and ICOMOS and will train approximately twenty graduates in conservation and management of cultural heritage. \n  International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and   the Restoration of Cultural Property (ICCROM)  The Committee approved a request for the amount of  US$ 75,000  for fellowships for participants from states Parties (developing countries) for three regular ICCROM courses: architectural conservation, conservation of mural paintings and scientific principles of conservation. \n &nbsp;