VIII.73  The World Heritage Committee took note of the second periodic report prepared by the the National Institute for Culture of Peru, on the implementation of the Master Plan of the site. It also noted that priority was given to international fund-raising. Furthermore, as indicated in the first report, the dwellings, illegally constructed in situ, have been demolished. However, illegal cultivation continues at the site. \n  VIII.74  To remedy this situation, the high-level Chan Chan Commission was created, comprising representatives from the Ministries of Education and Agriculture. However, it has not yet identified a satisfactory solution. To contend with looting of tombs and other protection problems at the site, the surveillance staff has been reinforced. The question of introducing mounted police has also been considered, but due to lack of funds, the construction of the stables has not been undertaken. Furthermore, a multisectoral Committee including local authorities and a consultative experts\' commission have been established. \n  VIII.75  The book collection of the documentation centre on earthen architecture has incresed slightly and the workshop on the conservation of materials works in cooperation with the Universities of Carolina and Utah State. According to the report, the stockage of archaeological objects is carried out under optimal conditions. \n  VIII.76  The excavation works have continued in the north part of the Tschudi Palace, as well as conservation work on the structures and reliefs of the Huaca La Esmeralda and the Huaca Arco Iris, and in the sector of the Audiences. A new signposting and new access have improved the presentation of the site. \n  VIII.77  However, the Committee noted that a great part of&nbsp;the activities foreseen in the Master Plan for 2000 and 2001 have slowed down or been postponed due to lack of funds, including the indispensable drainage project which was postponed until 2002 and which should be carried out in cooperation with the National Research Council of Italy. Also, following the El Ni&ntilde;o phenomenon and the ensuing rise in the underground water level, the waterproofing of the bases of the structure is becoming a matter of urgency. In fact, if it is true that climatic changes have encouraged the return of fauna and flora to their original state, these changes have negative and unexpected repercussions on the adobe structures. \n  VIII.78  The Committee took note of this information as well as that provided by the State Party concerning the Panamerican training courses carried out with the TERRA Group. It commended the important effort made by the State Party to submit a report on the site. However, it considered that the State Party should recognize the need to provide reports in a timely fashion and with sufficient information. \n  VIII.79  The Committee also noted the measures undertaken by the national authorities and urged the State Party to submit a more detailed report by 1 February 2002, on the implementation of the master plan, the legal response to questions concerning the encroachment of the site and the measures undertaken concerning the presence of police for the protection of the site, to be examined at its twenty-sixth session. Furthermore, the Committee decided to retain this property on the List of World Heritage in Danger. \n &nbsp;