XI.3  After having reviewed the nominations for inscription on the World Heritage List, the Committee reviewed Section I of the Document WHC-93/CONF.002/7. \n  XI.4  The Committee took note of the considerations presented by the Secretariat on this issue and of the results of an analysis of the tentative lists that have been submitted by States Parties over the years. The Committee expressed its concern on the small number of tentative lists that meet the requirements as stipulated in the Operational Guidelines, paragraphs 7 and 8, and confirmed the importance of these lists for planning purposes, comparative analysis of nominations and for facilitating the undertaking of the global and thematic studies. \n  XI.5  The Committee also confirmed that the tentative lists, which are mandatory for cultural properties and voluntary for natural ones, include those properties which the State Party intends to nominate for inscription on the World Heritage List during the coming five to ten years, and that these lists can be amended whenever the State Party concerned considers it opportune. The Committee will consider the necessity of a substantive evaluation of the tentative lists once a sufficient number has been received. \n  XI.6  The Committee invited the States Parties which have not yet done so, to pursue the preparation of tentative lists according the the Operational Guidelines. The Committee took the following decisions and requested the Centre to ensure their implementation: \n \n During the next two-year period the highest priority should be given to the establishment and/or revision of tentative lists in accordance with the stipulations in the Operational Guidelines, paragraphs 7 and 8. Active collaboration with the States Parties should be sought and preparatory assistance be provided when necessary and requested by the State Party concerned. \n During this period nominations of cultural properties that are included in any of the tentative lists would be accepted and processed according to the Operational Guidelines. \n As of 1 October 1995 only nominations of cultural properties that are included in tentative lists which meet all requirements as stipulated in the Operational Guidelines would be processed. \n From 1994 onwards, the tentative lists that meet the requirements as stipulated in the Operational Guidelines would be published and presented as an information document to the Committee at its annual meetings. \n \n &nbsp;