VIII.80  The Committee examined the report on the state of conservation of Zabid. It noted the positive development of the situation on the ground, especially with regard to the large mobilization of resources, both at the national and international level, resulting from the inscription of the site on the List of World Heritage in Danger in 2000. \n  VIII.81  The Committee also noted the results of the first missions carried out by the Centre in the framework of the emergency assistance approved by the Bureau at its last session in June 2001. The very significant steps taken by the State Party in order to halt new constructions within the World Heritage site, and the recommendations of the Centre concerning the necessary steps for the future were recognized. These recommendations include: \n \n Urgent launching of a campaign for awareness raising and systematic information targeted at the local population. \n Creation of a 1 km wide buffer zone from Madrassa Al-Baysha, situated east of the town, including an arc of 225&deg; in a clockwise direction up to the North entrance of the town. \n Creation of protection zones of a minimum width of 50m around the mosques and medersas (numbering 83) in the town. \n Strengthen and physically protect the historic residential ensembles of the town which are in danger of falling into ruin or collapsing (about 200 houses). \n Revitalisation of the Souk by undertaking effective measures to stimulate the economy. \n Include in the urban extension of the town, the area situated north/north-east of the historic town, in the framework of the new urban plan under preparation. \n Start immediate production by the brick oven and build others to be able to respond to the new demands. \n \n  VIII.82  The Committee commended the Yemeni&nbsp;authorities for their efforts and continued co-operation with the World Heritage Centre, and thanked the GTZ, the KFW and the Dutch authorities for their precious contributions and their interest in the Historic Town of Zabid. The Committee, furthermore, encouraged the Yemeni authorities to continue their efforts and immediately implement the seven urgent measures recommended by the World Heritage Centre mission of September/October 2001. \n &nbsp;