The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.117 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Notes  that stable funding for the property has been secured through State Order and the continuing efforts by the Kizhi Museum Reserve to improve maintenance, monitoring and presentation of the World Heritage property; \n 4.  Also notes  the results of the joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to the property in April 2010; \n 5.  Notes furthermore  the significant progress made in the management of the Kizhi Museum Reserve and the preparation and commencement of the restoration works of the Church of Transfiguration and  urges  the State Party to continue these efforts; \n 6.  Strongly requests  the State Party to revise the timber repair and assembling methods in accordance with the guidelines document provided by ICOMOS following the mission, and to define guiding principles for the restoration that relate to the authenticity and Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 7.  Notes with concern  proposals by the Kizhi Museum Reserve to develop new visitor facilities and a new visitor centre, in conformity with regulations of the Kizhi Reserve Master Plan and  also urges  the State Party to halt any developments within the property, its setting and protected areas of the Kizhi Museum-Reserve, and to submit to the World Heritage Centre, in conformity with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines , all projects for review and comments prior to any approval; \n 8.  Requests  the State Party to implement all recommendations outlined in the World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission report of April 2010, including the correctives measures identified; \n 9.  Reiterates its requests  to the State Party to: \n a) Provide a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value as a basis for developing an integrated management plan for the property, and guiding principles for conservation, \n b) Prepare and implement an integrated management plan, including a tourism strategy, risk preparedness measures, archaeological resource management, protection of the landscape setting, and clear boundary and buffer zone definitions in relation to the protected areas of the Kizhi Museum Reserve, monitoring measures and mechanisms, \n c) Establish a Special State Board in charge of coordinating the activities of the many different stakeholders and agencies involved with the overall management of the World Heritage property; \n 10.  Encourages  the State Party, and in particular the Kizhi Museum Reserve, to collaborate with the World Heritage Centre, the Advisory Bodies and the UNESCO Moscow office, to develop a capacity building programme for local experts involved in restoration and management activities in the Kizhi Museum Reserve; \n 11.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011 , a detailed state of conservation report, including a progress report and all relevant documents on the implementation of the corrective measures; \n 12.  Further requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission in 2011 to assess the state of conservation of the property; \n 13.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property including a report on all issues mentioned above and all relevant documents on the implementation of the corrective measures, for examination by the Committee at its 36th session in 2012,  with a view to considering in the absence of substantial progress the possible inscription of the property on the   List of World Heritage in Danger.