The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Documents WHC-10/34.COM/8B and WHC-10/34.COM/INF.8B2, \n 2.  Approves  the minor modifications within the areas referred to as the  Gaoligongshan ,  Baima-Meili Snow Mountains ,  Laowo Mountain ,  Yunling Mountain ,  Laojun Mountain ,  Qianhu Mountain, Haba Snow Mountain  and  Hongshan Mountain , component parts of the  Three Parallel Rivers of Yunnan Protected Areas ,  China ; \n 3.  Does not approve  the addition of the three proposed "influencing areas" to the property; \n 4.  Welcomes  the commitment of the State Party to increase the staff and resources for the property and to complete, approve and implement all of the management plans for the property and  urges  the State Party to implement these commitments at the earliest opportunity within all of the sub-units where minor modifications are approved and the boundaries are fully clarified, and to also establish without delay effective protection and management for all components and buffer zones of the property, and to reinforce the overall management of the property; \n 5.  Notes with regret  the apparent inadvertent inscription of legal mining areas that were operational prior to the nomination, in the inscribed property, and  reiterates  that active mining is not compatible with World Heritage Site status. The Committee  reminds  States Parties to ensure that mining areas are not nominated inappropriately to the World Heritage List, and  requests  IUCN to give particular consideration to possible mining conflicts in relation to its evaluation and monitoring processes; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to take all necessary steps to ensure that the mining operations that have already become established adjacent to the property and its buffer zone conform to appropriate international standards regarding the risk to the environment including human health; \n 7.  Also requests  the World Heritage Centre and IUCN, in collaboration with the State Party, to expedite the agreement of a Statement of Outstanding Universal Value for the property, based on the draft submitted by the State Party, for approval by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th Session in 2011; \n 8.  Further requests  the State Party to also take note of the above recommendations in relation to any requested actions decided by the World Heritage Committee in relation to the State of Conservation of the existing property.