The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7B.Add , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  30 COM 7B.3 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Welcomes  the steps taken by the State Party to implement some of the recommendations from the 2005 monitoring mission, but  notes  that many have not yet been fully addressed; \n 4.  Urges  the State Party to implement the remaining recommendations effectively; \n 5.  Requests  the State Party to complete its review of the legal provisions relevant to the property and to ensure that the law "On protection of Lake Baikal" and other laws and regulations are effectively implemented ; \n 6.  Also requests  the State Party to provide detailed information on any exemptions or amendments to the prohibited activities listed in Resolution 643 of the Baikal Law, and to confirm that activities incompatible with the World Heritage status, including mining, will continue to be prohibited; \n 7.  Encourages  the State Party to ensure adequate funding for management and monitoring of the property; \n 8.  Also urges  the State Party to finalise, as soon as possible, the municipal sewage treatment facilities to enable the operation of the closed water system within the Baikalsk Pulp and Paper Mill; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to set up legal and administrative frameworks to regulate tourism and recreation, to urgently develop and adopt effective planning regulations, and to establish a sustainable tourism strategy for the property; \n 10.  Requests moreover  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2009 , a clear and detailed report on the state of conservation of the property addressing the points above, and including the status of the Kholodninksoe zinc and lead deposit, and outlining further progress made in implementing the remaining recommendations of the joint 2005 World Heritage Centre / IUCN mission, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009.