The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/14A , Part I and Part II, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  28 COM 10B  adopted at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004), \n 3.  Taking into account  the comments on Document  WHC-05/29.COM/14B  made by States Parties, \n 4.  Notes with appreciation  the findings and recommendations contained in the Report on Impacts of Training Activities; \n 5.  Decides  that: \n a) Preference will be given to developing countries as defined by the United Nations Economic and Social Council\'s Committee for Development Policy in the grant of international assistance, as already provided for in paragraph 239(b) of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n b) International Assistance will now comprise the following three types: \n (i) Emergency Assistance; \n (ii) Preparatory Assistance; \n (iii) Conservation and Management Assistance (incorporating assistance for training and research, technical cooperation, and promotion and education; \n c) There will be no earmarking of funds against the different types of International Assistance, except in the case of Emergency Assistance; \n 6.  Confirms  that: \n a) Evaluating the impacts of International Assistance activities, such as training, is a key element of a results-based approach to the utilization of the World Heritage Fund. Impact evaluations test the validity of specific approaches to addressing the objectives of the  World Heritage Convention , help determine what works and what does not work, and are a means to learn about effective interventions; \n b) Efforts need to be made to expand and deepen the impact evaluation for International Assistance; \n c) These efforts depend on the introduction of a revised Application Form, selection of monitoring indicators and improved reporting procedures, and new database format (see Document  WHC-06/30.COM/14A , Part II) so that relevant data will be available; \n d) The findings of the impact evaluations should be disseminated to States Parties as a means to increase quality of International Assistance and capacity. \n 7.  Decides  that: \n a) Preference for International Assistance should be given to activities that promote a programmatic approach, as a way to maximize effectiveness; \n b) A new Application Form be developed taking into account the working document and in particular the need to focus on project aims, implementation measures, outcomes, and impacts as measured by indicators. This will be accompanied by written guidelines for distribution to all stakeholders on how to define project objectives, design cost effective and important indicators, and report on outcomes and impacts. This new application form shall be assessed at the 32nd session in 2008; \n c) A system of monitoring using indicators designed as part of the application process, and supported by field supervision visits whenever possible, shall be adopted. Summaries of outcomes following completion of activities will be required; \n d) The requests for International Assistance will be evaluated by a panel composed of the Chairperson of the World Heritage Committee or one vice-Chairperson, representatives of the World Heritage Centre Regional Desks and Advisory Bodies, meeting at least twice a year before action by the Chairperson and Committee; \n e) The World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies shall develop selection criteria (Annex 9 of the  Operational Guidelines ) to use in the evaluation of requests for presentation to the Committee at its 31st session in 2007; \n f) A new database following the recommendations of the evaluators should be established; \n g) The new International Assistance system consisting of a new application form, use of indicators and reporting requirements, new database, and Evaluation of Requests panel should go into effect on a pilot basis for two years no later than the 31st session in 2007; \n 8.  Requests  the Secretariat, in conformity with the above-mentioned paragraphs 6.a, 6.b, and 6.e, to make the necessary changes in the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 9.  Also requests  the Director of the World Heritage Centre to propose a procedure for periodically updating the  Operational Guidelines  for discussion at the 31st session.