The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Documents   WHC-05/29.COM/8B  ,   WHC-05/29.COM/8B.Add 2   and   WHC-05/29.COM/INF.8B.2  ,  2.  Inscribes   Dong Phayayen-Khao Yai Forest Complex  (Thailand) on the World Heritage List on the basis of natural criterion (iv):   Criterion (iv):  The Dong Phayayen-Khao Yai Forest Complex (DPKY-FC) contains more than 800 fauna species, including 112 species of mammals, 392 species of birds and 200 reptiles and amphibians. It is internationally important for the conservation of globally threatened and endangered mammal, bird and reptile species that are recognised as being of outstanding universal value. This includes 1 critically endangered, 4 endangered and 19 vulnerable species. The area contains the last substantial area of globally important tropical forest ecosystems of the Thailandian Monsoon Forest biogeographic province in northeast Thailand, which in turn can provide a viable area for long-term survival of endangered, globally important species, including tiger, elephant, leopard cat and banteng. The unique overlap of the range of two species of gibbon, including the vulnerable Pileated Gibbon, further adds to the global value of the complex. In addition to the resident species the complex plays an important role for the conservation of migratory species, including the endangered Spot-billed Pelican and critically endangered Greater Adjutant.  3.  Requests  the State Party of Thailand to carry out a study for the establishment of ecologically effective wildlife corridors to functionally link the western and eastern sectors of the complex, and to report on its findings, as well as an implementation time table, at its 31st session (2007);  4.  Further recommends  that the State Party:  a) expedite the implementation of the Dong Phayayen-Khao Yai Forest Complex management planning and appoint a manager responsible for the entire Protected Area complex;  b) provide increased resources for management across the complex;  c) undertake comprehensive and ongoing wildlife status monitoring;  d) implement measures to control the speed of traffic on the major roads that bisect the complex, especially before ecological corridors are established;  e) ensure that the World Heritage status of the complex is actively promoted to further encourage public cooperation in the conservation of the complex; and  f) explore transboundary protected area cooperation with the Government of Cambodia with regard to Banteay Chmar Protected Landscape, as well as other transborder resource management issues that affect the DYKYFC;  5.  Commends  the State Party for its establishment of protected area complexes to maximize conservation opportunities.