The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30 COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  27 COM 7A.8  and  29 COM 7A.8 , adopted at its 27th (UNESCO, 2003) and 29th (Durban, 2005) sessions respectively, \n 3.  Thanks  the State Party for hosting the IUCN/UNESCO monitoring mission to the property from 31 May to 2 June 2006;    \n 4.  Recognises  that there has been considerable progress in recent years in the rehabilitation of the property, with improved water quality leading toward the restoration of vegetation critical to the functioning of the ecosystem, the gradual return of wintering and breeding birds, though not yet to former numbers at the time of inscription on the World Heritage List, and the recovery of fish populations; \n 5.  Congratulates  the State Party for its strong commitment to the conservation of the property and in particular for putting in place a high quality scientific monitoring programme that contributes to regular reporting on progress; \n 6.  Notes  that the State Party is currently updating the hydrological model of the property originally developed under the BCEOM project, in order to asses the potential impacts of the three new proposed dams on the property; \n 7.  Considers  that on-going work is still required to guarantee the maintenance and restoration the values for which the property was inscribed on the World Heritage List and ensure its effective long term management; \n 8.  Requests  the State Party to implement the recommendations of the 2006 IUCN/UNESCO monitoring mission in the same positive spirit by which previous recommendations have been implemented; \n 9.  Thanks  the State Party for its commitment to regard Ichkeul National Park as a net consumer of water, and  requests  it to continue implementing this policy taking account of the need for occasional surges of water to flush out any concentrations of salt; \n 10.  Encourages  the State Party to seek funding support from the World Heritage Fund for a workshop in early winter 2006/07, in collaboration with IUCN and the World Heritage Centre, to discuss the draft management plan for the property and the application of the mission\'s recommendations; \n 11.  Requests  the State Party to provide the World Heritage Centre with an updated report by the  1 February 2007  on the state of conservation of the property and particularly on: \n a) The establishment of an integrated and autonomous management structure with decision-making powers and financial support for its effective work; \n b) The finalization and adoption of the management plan, taking into account the status conferred to the property as a World Heritage property, the conclusions of the hydrological model update and the establishment of a local Agenda 21 committee in order to raise awareness of the park in the broader catchments; \n 12.   Decides  to remove Ichkeul National Park (Tunisia) from the List of World Heritage in Danger ; \n 13.  Iterates  that if there is no continued satisfactory progress, the property shall be re-inscribed on the List of World Heritage in Danger at its 31st session in 2007.