The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33   COM 7B.75 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Notes  the reduction in height of the Jahan-Nama building under way and  requests  the State Party to confirm as soon as possible, in writing, to the World Heritage Centre, that the demolition has been completed; \n 4.  Takes note  of the recommendations of the 2010 World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitioring mission and  also requests  the State Party to implement them; \n 5.  Acknowledges  the information provided on the geotechnical investigation of the proposed location of the metro line, while recognising that it does not relate directly to possible impacts on the historic buildings and sites; \n 6.  Also acknowledges  the information that work is being undertaken on assessment of the impact of the metro line on the historic buildings and sites in the context of the proposed Nomination of the Historic Axis of Esfahan; \n 7.  Encourages  the State Party to develop a Management Plan for the property, in consultation with all stakeholders. This should define a strategic vision for the World Heritage property as a whole, and its buffer zone, and establish the needed coordinating processes. The Management Plan should consider the transport needs of the city, traffic management and parking provision, tourism management, housing and other infrastructure needs as well as the conservation of the historic fabric. It should set height limits in defined areas, and indicate areas where infill development is desired. A precursor should be a view line study to identify where height restriction is absolutely necessary. The Management Plan should include a process for sound heritage impact assessment and adequate consultation to control major development projects. It is also essential that it includes provisions for the monitoring of the historic buildings around the Meidan and along Chahar-Bagh in the context of the Metro Line developments; \n 8.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , an updated report on the progress made with the above and on the monitoring and further development of the Metro Line project, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012.