The World Heritage Committee;  1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7B.Add,   2.  Recalling Decision   29 COM 7B.38  adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005),  3.  Thanks  the State Party for having organised the joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS/ICCROM mission, given the results of said mission;   4.  Reiterates  its invitation to the State Party to organise, in 2007, a meeting of representatives of funding institutions and the major partners within the international community active in Senegal, in order to harmonise the current and future interventions on the property;  5.  Invites  the State Party to implement, before  1 February 2008 , the following measures to mitigate threats to the property:  a) Approve the Safeguarding and Enhancement Plan (SEP) and set up a heritage bureau in order to provide the property with a regulatory tool and a specialized service, to monitor any inappropriate architectural modifications and ensure the management of the property;  b) Define the boundaries of the property and redefine the buffer zone to include the Barbarie Tongue, in accordance with the guidelines of the SEP;  c) Appoint a site manager responsible for drawing up a management plan, in collaboration with the Municipality and the communities of Saint-Louis;  d) Initiate a restoration pilot project to provide an example of good restoration practice, to reactivate the production sources of materials, and to revive restoration skills in Saint-Louis;  6.  Encourage s the State Party to submit an international assistance request in order to carry out an in-depth study on reactivating the production sources of traditional materials (mud bricks, lime, etc.) and the building of restoration skills in Saint-Louis;  7.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  30 September 2006 , all the technical information on the restoration project for the Faidherbe Bridge, so that the Committee can ensure that the work foreseen guarantees the preservation of the universal value of the property.  8.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2007, a  report including a 2006 to 2008 action plan designed to implement the recommendations formulated above.