Historic Centre of the Town of Olinda (Brazil) - US$19,000:  for a tourist study which would form part of the Urban Development Plan. \n  Rock-hewn Churches of Ivanovo Monastery and Monastery of Rila (Bulgaria) - US$21,000:  of which US$16,000 will be earmarked for the purchase of equipment and US$5,000 for advisory services on the nature of conservation measure to be undertaken. \n  Old City of Dubrovnik (Croatia) - US$8,000:  for the restoration of mural paintings in the 18th century Baroque Festival Palace, which was severely damaged in 1991. ICCROM will supervise the project in collaboration with the Croatian Institute for Restoration. However, Croatia should first pay its outstanding dues to the World Heritage Fund. \n  Joya de Ceren (El Salvador) - US$25,000:  to define an integral development for the site of Joya de Ceren in the context of&nbsp;a wider area of archaeological imporance (including sites such as would be representatives of all national institutions involved, with a limited number of external experts). \n  Antigua Guatemala (Guatemala) - US$20,000:  for the purchase of equipment. \n  National History Park Citadel, Sans Souci, Ramiers (Haiti) - US$17,510:  for the purchase of exhibition panels, climate control equipment and other allied costs. \n Given the international embargo and the socio-economic situation, the UNDP Resident Representative in Haiti is requested to cooperate in the implementation and supervision of this assistance. \n  Authenticity Conference (Japan) - US$30,000:  to cover the travel costs of participants from Africa and Latin America attending the Conference, which will propose&nbsp;a draft text on the "test of authenticity" to the World Heritage Committee for World Heritage nominations, revising and enlarging the definition of the different aspects and criteria of authenticity as contained in the Operational Guidelines. \n  Medina of Marrakech, Morocco (Restoration of the Medersa Ben Youssef) - US$30,000:  to contribute to the restoration of the monument (rehabilitation, water-proofing, follr coverage, decoration and in particular the sculptured laster and "zellij" tiles as well as the protective mortar). \n  Historic Zones of Istanbul, Turkey (Restoration of the Mosaics of Hagia-Sophia) - US$30,000:  to continue the restoration work of the mosaics of the dome (purchase of materials and equipment and travel per diem and remuneration of restoration experts).