The World Heritage Committee,  1. Having examined Document   WHC-05/29.COM/7B.Rev   and the   Draft     Decision 29 COM 7B.54.Rev, 29 COM 7B.54.Rev ,  2. Recalling its Decision  28 COM 15B.63  adopted at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004),  3. Having taken note of the fact no final decision has yet been taken by the Esfahan Justice Department concerning the reduction of the height of the Jahan-Nama multifunctional complex,  4. Having taken note, furthermore, of the intention expressed by the State Party of the Islamic Republic of Iran to comply with the past recommendations of the World Heritage Committee in this regard,  5. Regretting, however, that as of the end of June 2005 the construction of the multifunctional complex was still underway,  6. Strongly urges the State Party to halt the on-going construction of the multifunctional complex and continue its efforts to implement the decisions of the World Heritage Committee as well as the recommendations of the National Technical Committee, in order to reduce the height of the complex to 12 metres for the eastern side of the complex, closer to the World Heritage property, and to 24 metres for the western side, including the tower, in accordance to existing building regulations in the area and with a view to ensure the conservation of the authentic setting and integrity of the historic city of Esphahan surrounding the Meidan Emam World Heritage property;  7. Decides to automatically inscribe the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger on  1 February 2006 , in consideration of the serious deterioration of the architectural and town planning coherence (ascertained danger) and of the threatening effects of town planning (potential danger) on the outstanding universal value of the property, unless the State Party provides by that date an official written communication to the World Heritage Centre confirming that the height of the multifunctional complex will be reduced according to the specifications provided in paragraph 6 above, and including a timetable for implementation;  8. Encourages the State Party to continue its efforts to nominate the extension of the World Heritage property of Meidan Emam, to include the historic axis consisting of the Friday Mosque, the Bazaars, the ancient bridges, the Zayanderoud River, and the South Chahar Bagh Avenue, as a means to further strengthen the protection of the urban heritage of Esfahan; 9. Requests the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1   February 2006 , a report on the state of conservation of the property including reference to the issue of the reduction of the multifunctional complex, for its examination by the Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006).