The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Documents   WHC-05/29.COM/8B  ,   WHC-05/29.COM/8B.Add 2   and   WHC-05/29.COM/INF.8B.1  ,  2.  Inscribes   Qal\'at al-Bahrain Archaeological Site  (Bahrain) on the World Heritage List on the basis of cultural criteria (ii), (iii) and (iv):   Criterion (ii):  Being an important port city, where people and traditions from different parts of the then known world met, lived and practiced their commercial activities, makes the place a real meeting point of cultures - all reflected in its architecture and development. Being in addition, invaded and occupied for long periods, by most of the great powers and empires, leaved their cultural traces in different strata of the tell.   Criterion (iii):  The site was the capital of one of the most important ancient civilizations of the region - the Dilmun civilization. As such this site is the best representative of this culture.   Criterion (iv):  The palaces of Dilmun are unique examples of public architecture of this culture, which had an impact on architecture in general in the region. The different fortifications are the best examples of defence works from the 3rd century B.C to the 16th century AD, all on one site. The protected palm groves surrounding the site are an illustration of the typical landscape and agriculture of the region, since the 3rd century BC.  3.  Requests  the State Party of Bahrain to submit by  1st February 2006  complete management and conservation plans for the property;  4.  Also requests  the State Party to refrain from approving any land reclamation or construction in the sea anywhere in front of the site and that the new construction on existing reclaimed land should be checked up as to protect the visual integrity of the site and to maintain the principal sight lines of the area nominated;  5.  Further requests  the State Party to firmly integrate the conservation and consolidation of the fortress and of the excavated area in both the management and conservation plans;  6.  Further requests  the State Party that a report on the progress and implementation of the above-mentioned recommendations be submitted for examination by the Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006).