The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7B.Add , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7B.96 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Notes  the substantive efforts of the State Party in defining and establishing the Cultural Heritage Programme, including legal assessments and relevant conservation, protection measures; \n 4.  Expresses its serious concern  about the privatization processes of land situated in the vicinity of the World Heritage property, and  strongly urges  the State Party to immediately halt these processes before the boundary clarification and the preparation of a "Special Statement on protection of World Heritage properties in Georgia" defining the World Heritage property\'s status and its buffer zones are completed; \n 5.  Recalls  its request to the State Party to give highest priority to development of an integrated management plan for the property; \n 6.  Invites  the State Party to establish a Special State Commission on World Heritage in order to officially share the responsibilities between all relevant State institutions and national, local and religious authorities in ensuring an appropriate legal protection and management of this property; \n 7.  Urges  the State Party to immediately start the implementation of an integrated multistakeholder approach to the conservation of Jvari  Church in coordination with ICCROM and relevant international experts on stone conservation; \n 8.  Also expresses its serious concern  about the state of conservation of the archaeological components of the World Heritage property, their progressive deterioration and the abandonment of conservation efforts by the State Party,  noting  that this loss has a major impact on the Outstanding Universal Value, authenticity and integrity of the property and further  urges  the State Party to develop a special programme on protection of all archaeological components; \n 9.  Encourages  the State Party to undertake global monitoring of the structural stability of the Svetiskhoveli Cathedral and implement special interventions for the conservation of the paintings; \n 10.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2009,  a progress report including all above mentioned documents, as well as the boundaries clarification document, and if relevant, the boundaries modification proposal, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009,  with a view to considering, in the absence of substantial progress, the inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger.