The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7B , \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  30 COM 7B.12  and  31 COM 7B.16 , adopted at its 30th (Vilnius, 2006) and 31st (Christchurch, 2007) sessions respectively, \n 3.  Recognises  the efforts of the State Party to implement the draft Emergency Action Plan (EAP) and its efforts to combat illegal logging, and  urges  the  State Party to complete and fully implement the EAP in 2008; \n 4.  Regrets  the escalation of threats, in particular the severity of encroachment, which have degraded the integrity of the property; \n 5.  Calls upon  the international community to provide technical and financial support for the implementation of the EAP; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to address the key recommendations from the previous Reactive Monitoring missions, and in particular to: \n a) provide sufficient financial support to the park authorities for effective staffing, enforcement, prosecution and restoration and to identify alternative sources of income for local communities to help reduce illegal activities; \n b) communicate and collaborate with government agencies at all levels to ensure that policies, laws, enforcement, and private enterprise support and do not counter the efforts of the park authorities; \n c) halt all encroachment immediately, including by issuing the decree on encroachment, and monitor and remove settlements and plantations from encroached areas to facilitate their restoration; \n d) ensure legal protection from road building and mining, and establish legal exceptions for any laws that allow these activities in the property; \n e) enforce the boundaries of the property and maintain, patrol and communicate these boundaries to concessionaires, local authorities and other stakeholders. \n 7.  Also requests  the State Party to hold a coordination workshop, to coincide with the planned 2009 joint Reactive Monitoring mission, with government agencies and other stakeholders to ensure the harmonisation of policies for the protection of the values and integrity of the property; \n 8.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and IUCN, to develop a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value including the conditions of integrity, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2009,  a state of conservation report to include progress in implementing the EAP, the above recommendations of the previous monitoring missions, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009