The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Expresses its deep regret  at the loss of life and devastation caused by the 12 January 2010 earthquake in Haiti and  thanks  the State Party for providing all elements and support necessary for carrying out the emergency mission in spite of the extreme difficulties being experienced; \n 3.  Acknowledges  the efforts of the Institute for the Preservation of the National Heritage (ISPAN) in establishing a close collaboration with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies and  appreciates  its deep commitment to the preservation of the cultural heritage of Haiti; \n 4.  Takes note  of the key factors affecting the property as indicated by the report submitted by the State Party in November 2009; \n 5.  Also acknowledges  the effective inter-institutional collaboration established between the States Parties, the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies in the preparation and carrying out of the inter-institutional mission to the property in a prompt and timely manner; \n 6.  Commends  the dedication and commitment shown by the Ministry of Culture and Communication to protect the property in spite of the difficult situation and humanitarian crisis; \n 7.  Notes with concern , however, that there are limited capacities to ensure an effective decision-making process and satisfactory management of the property to ensure that the Outstanding Universal Value of the property is sustained; \n 8.  Also notes with concern  that new infrastructure and development proposals aimed at increasing tourism could impact adversely on the vulnerable property; \n 9.  Requests  the State Party to establish an agreement for inter-ministerial cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Communication and CIAT (Inter-sectorial Council of Territorial Planning) to prioritize and coordinate actions, within the framework of territorial planning, with the aim of preserving the Outstanding Universal Value, integrity and authenticity of the property; \n 10.  Fully endorses  the recommendations provided by the technical mission report and  also requests  the State Party to implement them, should the situation allow it, giving priority to the following aspects: \n a) To halt the construction of Route RN003 within the limits of the property pending the development of other alternatives to be evaluated, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines  of the  World Heritage Convention , \n b) To halt the plans for the immediate foreseen touristic development at the property pending the finalization of the conservation and management plan, \n c) To establish a local conservation management unit on site, \n d) To complete and approve the conservation plan including a comprehensive risk management approach by July 2011, and the management plan including provisions for public use of the property by July 2012, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, \n e) To submit the Retrospective Statement of Outstanding Universal Value and complete the Retrospective Inventory of the property, including the official delineation of the boundaries of the property and its buffer zone, as well as their related regulatory measures; \n 11.  Calls upon  the international community to ensure, in every way possible, its support for the implementation of the recommendations to rapidly approve the financial and human resources to assist the State Party in the integrated conservation of the property; \n 12.  Encourages  the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies to set up an action plan and technical, institutional and financial strategies to implement all the urgent actions identified by the mission; \n 13.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011 , a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and advances made in conservation, management and risk preparedness planning, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.