The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7A.3 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005), \n 3.  Notes with concern  that the part of the property located in C&ocirc;te d\'Ivoire remains entirely under the control of rebel forces and that encroachment, deforestation, hunting, mining and that a lack of management capacity and resources continue to threaten the property in Guinea; \n 4.  Urges  the State Party of Guinea to review the existing protection status of the Reserve and to adopt legal and legislative instruments to ensure protection of the property, in close cooperation with the World Heritage Centre and IUCN; \n 5.  Requests  the State Party of Guinea and UNDP to start as soon as possible the field implementation of the GEF funded Mount Nimba project and to cooperate with the World Heritage Centre to start the UNESCO activities foreseen under the project; \n 6.  Thanks  the State Party of Guinea for having invited a joint UNESCO/IUCN monitoring mission to the property and  requests  the State Party of C&ocirc;te d\'Ivoire, as soon as the security situation allows, to extend this invitation to the Ivorian side of the property. The mission shall evaluate the Outstanding Universal Value of the property and assess its state of conservation, in particular the extent to which recommendations of the 1993 monitoring mission to Guinea have been met, reviewing the current status of the mining activities in the mining enclave and establishing corrective measures, benchmarks and a timeframe to implement them, in view of a possible removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger; \n 7.  Further requests  the States Parties of C&ocirc;te d\'Ivoire and Guinea to provide the World Heritage Centre with an updated report by  1 February 2007  on the state of conservation of the property, in particular the status of the mining activities and its potential impacts on the integrity of the property, the implementation of the Mount Nimba project and progress towards reviewing the protection status of the Reserve, for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007; \n 8.   Decides  to retain Mount Nimba Strict Nature Reserve (C&ocirc;te d\'Ivoire / Guinea) on the List of World Heritage in Danger .