The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.&nbsp;Having examined Documents  WHC-08/32.COM/8B  and  WHC-08/32.COM/INF.8B2,  \n 2.&nbsp;Inscribes  Surtsey  , Iceland , on the World Heritage List on the basis of  criterion (ix) ; \n 3. Adopts the following Statement of Outstanding Universal Value: \n   Values   \n Surtsey is a new island formed by volcanic eruptions in 1963-67. It has been legally protected from its birth and provides the world with a pristine natural laboratory. Free from human interference, Surtsey has produced long-term information on the colonisation process of new land by plant and animal life. \n  Criterion (ix):  Ongoing biological and ecological processes: Surtsey was born as a new volcanic island in 1963-67 and since that time has played a major role in studies of succession and colonisation. It has been the site of one of the few long term studies worldwide on primary succession, providing a unique scientific record of the process of colonisation of land by plants, animals and marine organisms. Not only is it geographically isolated, but it has been legally protected from its birth, providing the world with a pristine natural laboratory, free from human interference. Above all, because of its continuing protection, Surtsey will continue to provide invaluable data on biological colonisation long into the future. \n   Integrity   \n The property includes the whole island and an adequate surrounding marine area, and thus all the areas that are essential for the long term conservation of the ecological processes on Surtsey. There is also a relatively small but functional marine buffer zone that is not part of the inscribed property. It is noted that part of the evolution of Surtsey is the process of coastal erosion which has already halved the area of the island and over time is predicted to remove another two thirds leaving only the most resistant core. \n   Requirements for Protection and Management   \n Surtsey is a highly controlled, isolated environment and so threats are very limited. The purpose of strictly prohibiting visits to Surtsey is to ensure that colonisation by plants and animals, biotic succession and the shaping of geological formations will be as natural as possible and that human disruption will be minimised. It is prohibited to go ashore or dive by the island, to disturb the natural features, introduce organisms, minerals and soils or leave waste on the island. Nearby construction is also strictly controlled. The most significant management issue will be to retain the level of control and protection from human influence that has characterised the protective history of Surtsey. It is noted that, as an island ecosystem, there is the potential for human disturbance and pollution from a very wide area. Contingency planning, for example for oil spills, is required for the property and its wider surroundings. Given the lack of access a creative and positive approach to presenting the property will be required to ensure that visitors are able to appreciate, but not disturb, its values. \n 4. Recommends the State Party to give consideration to a serial re-nomination and extension of Surtsey in relation to its geological values (criterion viii) to include a suite of sites that represents the great variety of unique geological features that are characteristic of tectonic plate margin separation. This could potentially be developed in the context of a serial nomination related to the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, or as a serial nomination within Iceland which might include volcanic properties on Iceland\'s Tentative List, and the potential recognition of the significant geological values of &THORN;ingvellir National Park, a World Heritage property currently recognised only for its cultural values.