The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7A.26 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Notes  the establishment of a management structure within the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as significant progress made by the State Party in the implementation of the corrective measures for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger; \n 4.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to adopt the completed "Integrated Area Management Action Plan" and to integrate it into the urban planning system of the City of Baku; \n 5.  Also notes  the initiation of a conservation master plan for "Icherisheher" and  requests  that the development of this planning tool be integrated within the "Integrated Area Management Action Plan"; \n 6.  Also reiterates  its requests to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value including the conditions of integrity and authenticity, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 7.  Urges  the State Party to prepare, in collaboration with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, guidelines for the rehabilitation and restoration of historic buildings, including rehabilitation methodologies, as well as for the design of new constructions and street furniture; \n 8.  Also urges  the State Party to halt any demolition until further inspection by the Reactive Monitoring mission and review with assistance of the Advisory Bodies the rehabilitation and rebuilding works in progress; \n 9.  Encourages  the State Party to clearly define and approve an institutional coordination framework for the active involvement of stakeholders; \n 10.  Invites  the State Party to consider the extension of the buffer zones to integrate the 19th and 20th century urban areas; \n 11.  Also requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS Reactive Monitoring mission in order to review the implementation of the corrective measures; \n 12.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2009,  an updated report, on the state of conservation of the property, and progress made in the implementation of the corrective measures, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 13.   Decides  to retain the Walled City of Baku with the Shirvanshah\'s Palace and Maiden Tower (Azerbaijan) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.