The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having  examined Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.43 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Acknowledges  the progress made by the State Party in basic conservation and monitoring, in delineating the boundaries of the property and its buffer zone; and  reiterates its request  to the State Party to submit maps of the boundaries and buffer zone to the World Heritage Centre; \n 4.  Requests  the State Party to submit details of the type and frequency of monitoring arrangements of the temporary shelters; \n 5.  Expresses its concern  at the uncontrolled urban encroachment that threatens the property and  urges  the State Party to halt this encroachment; \n 6.  Recognizing  the importance of a management plan that could link the management of the churches to the sustainable development of the wider setting of the property,  also requests  the State Party to pursue its efforts in establishing a site management plan with the support of the World Heritage Centre ; \n 7.  Also recognizing  the importance of an holistic, inter-disciplinary project to study the cause of decay of the churches in relation to the wider landscape as well as to stone decay,  further requests  the State Party to pursue its efforts in implementing the pilot project at the Gabriel Rufael Church in cooperation with the World Heritage Centre and World Monuments Fund, with a view to finding a sustainable solution that would allow the removal of the temporary shelters ; \n 8.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to regularly inform the World Heritage Centre about the World Bank tourism development project that is being implemented at the property, and to submit to the World Heritage Centre all related planned conservation and enhancement projects for review by the Advisory Bodies and by the World Heritage Centre prior to any commitment being made, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 9.  Notes  the completion of a development plan for Lalibela area and  requests moreover  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre a copy of the plan with information on its related regulatory framework; \n 10.  Finally requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2012 , an updated report on the state of conservation of the property for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012.