The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.82 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Notes with regret  that the requested state of conservation report including plans showing the revised boundaries of the property and buffer zone, a final comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan or a detailed report on current intentions with regard to the International Cricket Stadium and proposed new port was not received; \n 4.  Reiterates its encouragement  to the State Party to consider an extension of the World Heritage property boundary to include the maritime archaeology of the bay, and if agreeable to prepare a minor modification request to that effect; \n 5.  Also urges  the State Party to review the buffer zone surrounding the Old Town of Galle, its fortifications and maritime archaeology in the context of protecting its setting from the adverse effects of any future development; \n 6.  Encourages  the State Party to further empower (through further legislative enactment if necessary) and support the Galle Heritage Foundation to carry out its currently legislated function in relation to Galle and specifically the World Heritage property; \n 7.  Requests  details of the reduced proposal for the new port including a statement regarding its impact on the maritime archaeology and the World Heritage property; \n 8.  Also requests  advice in accordance with the  Operational Guidelines , Paragraph 172, of any proposed developments that may impact on the World Heritage property, including any further building on the cricket ground; \n 9.  Further requests  that the State Party submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2011 , a report on progress with the above and in particular the finalized comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan, including details of institutional arrangements for management of the property, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session.