The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7A,  \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7A.4 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005), \n 3.  Commends  the State Party, in particular the Park authority ICCN and its conservation partners for the efforts to improve the state of conservation of the property and for submitting a report on the state of conservation of the property; \n 4.  Urges  the State Party to implement immediately the recommendations of the UNESCO monitoring mission which could constitute possible benchmarks in order to safeguard the outstanding universal value and integrity of the property, and in the interest of conservation: \n a) The Congolese army (FARDC), in consultation with the Park authority ICCN, needs to develop a strategy to evacuate all armed groups from the property, in particular rebels belonging to FDLR (Forces D&eacute;mocratiques pour la Lib&eacute;ration du Rwanda) and implement this evacuation in cooperation with the MONUC. The strategy will also need to take into account the closing of all illegal mining operations inside the property. The strategy has to avoid driving FDLR rebels inside the property, as is currently the case, where they engage in mineral extraction and poaching; \n b) Substantially strengthening the presence of ICCN Park guards in the lowland sector of the Park, with the assistance of FARDC; \n c) Reclaiming as soon as the security situation allows the farms inside the Park on the basis of the results of the 2001 provincial committee ("Commission des Etatiques Provinciaux concern&eacute;s par le Conflit foncier du PNKB"), noting that the delimitation of the Park limits in the ecologically important corridor between the lowland and highland sectors remains a priority; \n d) Strengthening the cooperation between ICCN and its partners by developing a joint planning for all interventions in the Park, with clear responsibilities and benchmarks; \n e) Conducting as soon as the security situation allows a survey of flagship species present in the lowland sector of the Park, in particular gorilla and other primates; \n f) Strengthening the law enforcement in the property, thereby gradually increasing the amount of the Park that is covered by guard patrols, in cooperation with MONUC and the army. At the same time it is important to reinvigorate the Park staff and improve their efficiency through specialized training; \n g) Establish a trust fund for the rehabilitation of the DRC World Heritage properties, to which the Government of the DRC committed to contribute at the 2004 UNESCO conference on Heritage in Danger in DRC; \n 5.  Requests  the Director General to ask the United Nations Organization Mission in DRC (MONUC) to continue and strengthen its cooperation with ICCN and its conservation partners for the conservation of the property; \n 6.  Calls  on international donors to support the efforts of the State Party to rehabilitate the property; \n 7.  Requests  the State Party to provide the World Heritage Centre with an updated report by  1 February 2007  on the state of conservation of the property and progress with the implementation of recommendations of the UNESCO monitoring mission, for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007 ; \n 8.   Decides  to retain Kahuzi-Biega National Park (Democratic Republic of the Congo) on the List of World Heritage in Danger .