The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/  7B ,  2.  Recalling  Decision  29COM7B.55 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005),   3.  Endorses  the recommendations of the reactive monitoring mission of November 2005 jointly undertaken by ICOMOS and the World Heritage Centre;   4.  Commends  the State Party for its thorough and action-oriented response to the mission\'s recommendations as well as for the consultative measures being undertaken;  5.  Requests  the State Party to implement the recommendations made by the reactive monitoring mission and particularly to:  a) Develop an effective management plan;  b) Avoid carrying out any development pending completion of the management plan;  c) Implement corrective measures on the Maya Devi Temple as indicated in the mission report;  d) Survey and monitor the ground water levels and movements, under and adjacent to the Maya Devi Temple, to ensure the long-term protection of the significant archaeological remains as well as the Marker Stone maintained in situ under the temple;  e) Develop non-destructive archaeological strategies to ensure long-term conservation of the vast excavated and unexcavated areas of archaeological significance in and around the property, through adequate documentation and monitoring;  6.  Invites  the international community to provide technical and financial support to assist the State Party in these activities;  7.  Requests  the State Party to continue its full commitment to establishing a management plan based on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, for possible completion by the end of 2008;  8.  Encourages  the State Party to consider requesting assistance through the World Heritage Fund to support the elaboration of the management plan for the property;   9.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2008,  a report on the progress made on the above points, for examination by the Committee at its 32nd session in 2008.