The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B.Add.2, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.44 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Expresses its strong concern  at the apparent scope and scale of the proposed new port project near Lamu Island; \n 4.  Requests  the State Party at the earliest possible opportunity to inform the World Heritage Centre in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines  as to their intentions with regard to the proposed port project and to provide the necessary details of the project for evaluation by the Advisory Bodies, including a full heritage impact assessment of the potential impact of the project on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, before any formal commitment to the project has been made; \n 5.  Also requests  the State Party to involve the National Museums of Kenya, as an integral stakeholder, in the heritage impact assessment; \n 6.  Encourages  the State Party to carry out the necessary actions to protect the entirety of the Shela Sand Dunes/water catchment system in line with the recommendations of the mission report; \n 7.  Further requests  the State Party to submit a map to the World Heritage Centre clearly demarcating and labeling the boundaries of the property; \n 8.  Also encourages  the State Party to resolve the issues related to the enlargement of the buffer zone to include the whole of the Lamu Archipelago, and at a minimum the whole of Lamu and Manda Islands, and to submit the agreed upon area for examination by the World Heritage Committee as a minor modification; \n 9.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit the final management plan to the World Heritage Centre as soon as it is completed for review by the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies; \n 10.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2011 , a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property including issues related to the proposed port, the water catchment area, the boundaries and buffer zones, the management plan, the changes to the architectural heritage, unplanned and planned development projects in and around the property, enlargement of informal settlements, changes of ownership, and sustainable development and also other points raised in the reactive monitoring mission of May 2010, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.