The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7B  ,   2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7B.49 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005),   3.  Commends  the State Party of China for its continued commitment to address the conservation concerns of the cultural heritage properties in Beijing and for providing an updated management plan for the Imperial Palace of Beijing;  4.  Notes with great concern , however, that current restoration works at the Imperial Palace, the Temple of Heaven and the Summer Palace in Beijing are carried out in a hasty manner, lack of documentary evidence and clearly formulated principles to guide the conservation works;   5.  Requests  the State Party to provide to the World Heritage Centre with a report clarifying what documentary evidence is being used for the restoration of the polychromy within the three World Heritage properties;  6.  Encourage s the State Party to make explicit the philosophical framework being used for conservation decisions on the property, whether this be &quot;Principles for the Conservation of Heritage Sites&quot; promoted by ICOMOS China or another vehicle;  7.  Further requests  the State Party to integrate risk-preparedness and tourism management within the Conservation Master Plan for the Imperial Palace and to develop appropriate Conservation Master Plans for the World Heritage properties of the Summer Palace and the Temple of Heaven in Beijing;  8.  Encourages  the State Party to initiate a collaborative study on the restoration of polychromy and ways to ensure its authenticity with other East Asian countries such as Japan, Korea and Vietnam;  9.  Further encourages  the State Party to organize, in collaboration with ICOMOS and the World Heritage Centre, a Regional Symposium on the Outstanding Universal Value, Authenticity and Integrity of Cultural Heritage Properties in Asia, in 2007 or 2008, to assess the relevance of conservation principles developed at the international level within the region;  10.  Requests  the State Party to provide the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2007 , with a report on the progress made in the implementation of the above recommendations, for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007.