The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7A,   \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7A.1 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Expresses its utmost concern  about the security situation in northern Central African Republic and its impact on the property, in particular the continued large scale poaching of wildlife, which could soon lead to the loss of the Outstanding Universal Value for which the property was inscribed on the World Heritage List; \n 4.  Requests  the Chairperson of the World Heritage Committee to contact the authorities of the Central African Republic to discuss conservation issues facing the property and necessary management measures; \n 5.  Regrets  that the planned joint World Heritage Centre / IUCN Reactive Monitoring mission had to be postponed again due to the insecurity; \n 6.  Reiterates  its request to the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / IUCN Reactive Monitoring mission, as soon as the security situation allows, to assess the impact on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property and the potential for its rehabilitation and to develop an emergency action plan for the property, including the corrective measures, with all concerned stakeholders; \n 7.  Encourages  the State Party, in collaboration with the World Heritage Centre, IUCN, the ECOFAC programme and other relevant stakeholders, to hold a workshop to discuss a strategy to improve the protection of the values of the property prior to the mission, with funding from the World Heritage Fund; \n 8.  Urges  the State Party to take all measures possible to halt poaching in the property and, in collaboration with the States Parties of Chad and Sudan, to consider developing transboundary cooperation to address this issue; \n 9.  Also calls upon  the international community to further support urgent conservation measures to prevent the property from losing its Outstanding Universal Value; \n 10.  Also reiterates  its request to the State Party, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and IUCN, to develop a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value including the conditions of integrity and a proposal for the Desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 11.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  1 February 2009 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 12.   Decides  to retain Manovo-Gounda St. Floris National Park (Central African   Republic) on the List of World Heritage in Danger .