The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  33 COM 7B.89  and  33 COM 7B.90,  adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Notes  the considerable technical work involved in preparing and submitting the Visual Impact Study and that the authorities try to ensure compatibility of new architectural and facade design with the requirements of the protection of the World Heritage properties of the Historic Centre of Vienna and the Palace and Gardens of Sch&ouml;nbrunn; \n 4.  Welcomes  the commitment of the authorities of the City of Vienna to ensuring that the visibility of the new railway project does not impact on the Outstanding Universal Value of both World Heritage properties; \n 5.  Also notes  that the Main Railway Station project was reduced in height as a result of the decisions taken by the World Heritage Committee and  requests  that a further height reduction of the western towers and related features be carried out to completely eliminate any visual impacts on the Belvedere property; \n 6.  Also requests  that the World Heritage Centre be informed of any further changes to the current planning of the Main Railway Station project that could alter the findings of the Visual Impact Study; \n 7.  Urges  the State Party to further consider the adoption of local architectural forms and roofscape colors and improve architectural volumes of the railway station complex when viewed from distances across the city; \n 8.  Further notes  that the Kometgr&uuml;nde project will create an alien element in its urban context, and that the project is located at a point in the cityscape less suited to the construction of high-rise buildings and that this will impact adversely on the diagonal axis of the Palace and Gardens of Sch&ouml;nbrunn World Heritage property; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to reconsider the approved 73m height of the Kometgr&uuml;nde project tower-shaped section, to the previously recommended reduced 60m height; \n 10.  Also urges  the State Party, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines , to inform the World Heritage Centre of details of the various other recently approved and proposed new high-rise developments that could impact adversely on the Outstanding Universal Value of both properties; \n 11.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre for review by ICOMOS a further Visual Impact Study that addresses all views required to ensure the protection of important views from and to the World Heritage properties and to submit a report on the state of conservation of the World Heritage properties of the Historic Centre of Vienna and the Palace and Gardens of Sch&ouml;nbrunn to World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2011 .