The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7B ,  2.  Recalling  Decisions  28 COM 15B.6  and  29 COM 7B.43 , adopted at its 28th (Suzhou, 2004) and 29th (Durban, 2005) sessions respectively,  3.  Takes note  of the report of the World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission which took place from 21-25 April 2006;  4.  Commends  the State Party for having committed itself at the highest level to address the issues of concern expressed through the decisions of the Committee, particularly through the creation of local and inter-ministerial committees that guide action and  notes with satisfaction  the initiation of a site management plan based on an integrated approach;  5.  Notes  that, although the property\'s Outstanding Universal Value has not been compromised, without strengthened management supported by an integrated site management plan, the situation could become critical;  6.  Urges  the State Party to implement the recommendations issued by the World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS mission of 2006 and  endorses  the following benchmarks to be effectively implemented by  1 February 2008  for the future assessment of the effectiveness of measures to be taken by the State Party:  a) Adoption and implementation of a permanent and effective separate Management structure;  b) Establishment of a mechanism for collection of revenues on site and re-distribution to benefit conservation management of the property;  c) Establishment of a Special Decree or by-laws to mandate interventions regarding ownership issues in relation to planning activities, particularly for structures in a critical state;  d) Finalization, formal adoption and implementation of the management plan;  e) Continuation of preventive conservation measures with increased programming in respect of the buildings requiring urgent intervention to prevent further decay;  7.  Requests  the State Party to finalise the draft of the management plan and to submit it to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2007 ;  8.  Recommends  that the State Party invite a World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS mission before the next session of the Committee in 2007 to monitor progress and support the Moroccan Government in its activities to achieve the benchmarks by  1 February 2008 ;   9.  Also requests  the State Party to provide the World Heritage Centre with an updated report by  1 February 2007  on the state of conservation of the property, and on the progress achieved in meeting each of the above-mentioned benchmarks, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 31st session in 2007.