The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.142 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Regrets  that no substantial progress has been made in the implementation of the recommendations of the 2008 World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS joint reactive monitoring mission; \n 4.  Takes note  of the progress made by the State Party in establishing institutional arrangements and  encourages  it to secure the resources required for their sustained operation; \n 5.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies the following information: \n a) The finalized Master Plan and Management Plan, \n b) An advanced report on the registration and inventorying of built heritage in the property; \n 6.  Acknowledges  the efforts made to enhance the protection of the property by declaring the Chilina Valley and the Pre-hispanic terraces as a protected area and  urges  the State Party to fully implement regulatory measures to prevent further urban sprawl and impacts on the setting; \n 7.  Also regrets  that the State Party did not submit a finalized risk preparedness plan as requested by the World Heritage Committee since 2003 and  reiterates its request  to complete the process and submit the plan for review by the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to submit updated information on the construction of the Chilina Bridge and projected infrastructure works, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines  to the World Heritage Centre for review by the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies and  also urges  the State Party to stop infrastructure works until the potential impact of these works on the Outstanding Universal Value, including integrity and authenticity of the property can be ascertained; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011,  a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and on the progress made in the implementation of the above recommendations, for the examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.