The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Documents   WHC-05/29.COM/8B  ,   WHC- 05/29.COM/8B.Add 2, WHC-05/29.COM/INF.8B.1   and   WHC-    05/29.COM/INF.8B.2  ,  2.  Refers  back to the State Party of Gabon the nomination of the  Ecosystem and  \xc2\xa0Relict Cultural Landscape of Lop\xc3\xa9-Okanda  (Gabon) to the World Heritage List, on the basis of natural values, in order to allow the State Party to provide an improved comparative analysis that demonstrates the outstanding universal value of the property, considering other protected areas in Gabon and the region, and in relation to detailed inventories of fauna and flora, as available.  3.  Refers  back to the State Party the nomination of the Ecosystem and Relict Cultural Landscape of Lop\xc3\xa9-Okanda, Gabon, to the World Heritage List on the basis of cultural values in order to allow the State Party to address the potential of the property as a cultural landscape and to provide:  a) Information on the enlargement of the nominated property to reflect a coherent group of archaeological and rock art sites that extend to both sides of the River Ogoou\xc3\xa9;  b) an inventory of archaeological and rock art sites; and  c) a map of the archaeological and rock art sites, clarifying appropriate boundaries;  4.  Further requests  the State Party to continue to increase management capacity at the property to effectively address integrity requirements, and to confirm the long-term management, planning and staffing arrangements, to ensure the overall sustainable management of the property, including the relationship of its cultural and natural values.  5.  Congratulates  the State Party on its efforts to secure international support for the management of Lop\xc3\xa9 National Park and commends the support provided to date by the European Union, through the ECOFAC (Ecosyst\xc3\xa8mes forestiers d\'Afrique Centrale) programme, and relevant NGOs, in particular the Wildlife Conservation Society;  6.  Welcomes  the State Party\'s development of an improved Tentative List and recommends that, with the assistance of the advisory bodies, the position of the nominated property is confirmed in relation to other potential World Heritage properties in Gabon. In relation to natural values this should include the examination of possibilities for serial and transboundary nominations;  7.  Invites  the State Party to submit an international assistance request in relation to support the work required to provide the information requested above.