The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7B,   2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 8B.26 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005),  3.  Commends  the State Party on its commitment for the protection and conservation of the World Heritage property;  4.  Notes  that priority has been given to the resolution of the main threats which are likely to affect the property (the North Star and causeway projects) and that a revision of the development plan of the northern coast of the country and a zoning plan aiming at controlling the height of the buildings in the areas surrounding the property are currently being discussed by the responsible authorities;  5.  Welcomes  the proposal to delineate a visual corridor, in which any land reclamation in the sea in front of the property would be prohibited in order to preserve its visual integrity, and which has been developed by the State Party in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS during the mission of June 2006, which identified eight defining geographic coordinates;  6.  Supports  the possible replacement of the foreseen causeway by a bridge and invites the State Party to consult the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS on the design of this future project;  7.  Invites  the State Party to pursue the discussions described in point 4 here above in order to identify the most appropriate solutions to be included in the future revised development plan;  8.  Invites  the State Party to submit a proposal for a modification of the boundaries of the inscribed property according to the procedures indicated in paragraphs 163 to 165 of the  Operational Guidelines , for revising the core zone to include the ancient channel and the sea tower, and for revising the buffer zone to include the visual corridor as identified in point 5 above;  9.  Requests  the State Party to officially notify the World Heritage Centre confirming the decision to abandon or relocate the North Star project and endorsing the delimitation of the &quot;visual corridor&quot;, as identified in point 5 here above;  10.  Also requests  the State Party to report to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2007 , on the progress on the application of the measures described in points 5, 6, 7 and 8 above, and also on the elaboration of the management and conservation plans, the definition of the legislative framework for the protection of the World Heritage property, the archaeological survey in the most threatened areas surrounding the core zone and the response to the issues relating to the future re-housing of part of the local community, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 31st session in 2007.