The World Heritage Committee,  1. Having examined Document   WHC-05/29.COM/7B.Rev  ,  2. Recalling its Decision  28 COM 15B.38 , adopted at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004),  3. Takes note of the information provided by the State Party of Peru and the advances made in the elaboration of the Master Plan and invites the State Party to officially request technical support from UNESCO/ICOMOS/IUCN to assist in the task of national and regional authorities to engage in a participatory process to finalize the Master Plan, as well as the development of a Public Use Plan;  4. Urges the Management Unit of the Historic Sanctuary of Machu Picchu to send the Operative Plan for 2005 to the World Heritage Centre;  5. Expresses its concern over the construction of a pilot village in the buffer zone of the Historic Sanctuary of Machu Picchu within the framework of the Vilcanota Project and requests the State Party to take the appropriate measures to analyze the potential impact of this intervention through an impact assessment study;  6. Strongly urges the State Party to formalize and enforce urban planning guidelines, as part of the new Master Plan, to control the development of Aguas Calientes;  7. Requests the World Heritage Centre to continue working with the Government of Peru and the World Bank to assist and guide the Management Unit and related institutions in the integrated conservation of the property within the framework of the Vilcanota project;  8. Urges the Government of Peru and the World Bank to re-orient the priorities of the Vilcanota Valley Project to provide a Tourism Operational Plan for the entire Valley;  9. Thanks Kyoto University and the International Consortium on Landslides for their support and encourages them and the State Party to continue their efforts to promote applied research to conservation, in association with other interested scientific institutions and countries, and to propose concrete actions to prevent and mitigate the risks of landslides at the Citadel and surrounding areas; 10. Requests the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1\xc2\xa0 February 2006  a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and progress made in the development and implementation of plans, for examination by the Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006).