The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7A.Add,   \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7A.2 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Welcomes  the improvement of the security situation in the property which could allow the management authority to regain control over the entire property in the near future; \n 4.  Notes  that some progress was made in the implementation of the corrective measures, in particular with regard to community outreach activities and reinforcing anti-poaching patrols; \n 5.  Regrets  that no ecological data were provided to assess the conservation status of the property and help define the boundaries of the management zones; \n 6.  Urges  the State Party to increase its efforts to fully implement all the corrective measures and recommendations of the 2006 Reactive Monitoring mission within the timeframe set at the 30th session of the World Heritage Committee (Vilnius, 2006), in particular regarding the completion and implementation of the management plan; \n 7.  Calls upon  the international community to financially support the management and rehabilitation of the property; \n 8.  Request   s the State Party, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and IUCN, to develop a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, including the conditions of integrity, and a proposal for the Desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre a detailed report by  1 February 2009  on the state of conservation of the property and on the implementation of the corrective measures and other recommendations of the 2006 monitoring mission, including a copy of the draft management plan, an overview of current and projected budgets for the management of the property and information on available ecological data, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 10.   Decides  to retain Como&eacute; National Park (C&ocirc;te d\'Ivoire) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.