The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7B , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7B.48,  adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Notes  the progress made in phase 1 of a project for the rehabilitation of the San Sebastian Fortress, and the completion of the restoration of Casa Girassol; \n 4.  Expresses its concern  that no progress has been made with the Conservation and management plan but  acknowledges  that an application for help in finalizing the Plan has been submitted to the Africa 2009 Programme for promoting a better understanding of World Heritage values; \n 5.  Also expresses its serious concern  that there has been little progress in addressing the serious degradation of historical monuments and urban structures, which is threatening the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 6.  Urges  the State Party to address the most severe degradation and put in place short-term remedial actions, including capacity building, in collaboration with all the stakeholders; \n 7.  Calls upon  the international community, in collaboration with UNESCO, to support the creation of partnerships to allow an integrated approach to the sustainable development of the property; \n 8.  Requests  the State Party, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS, to develop a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value including the conditions of integrity and authenticity, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS / ICCROM Reactive Monitoring mission to examine the state of conservation of the property and determine if it is under ascertained or potential threats, as defined by Paragraph 179 of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2009 , a report on the progress made in implementing the Emergency Action Plan and in undertaking short-term remedial actions, and on the preparation of the Conservation and management plan, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009,  with a view to considering, in the absence of substantial progress, the inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger.