The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7A  ,   \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7A.25 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005), \n 3.  Notes  that considerable progress has been made in the preparation of the master plans for the Lahore Fort and Shalamar Gardens; \n 4.  Congratulates  the State Party on the positive change in the conservation framework created through the transfer of management of the property from Federal to Provincial authority; \n 5.  Commends  the State Party for all actions taken in the last year to advance the conservation of the property; \n 6.  Regrets , however, that neither the protective measures, such as fencing around the site for the demolished hydraulic works at the Shalamar Gardens, nor the consolidation works on its remaining foundation, have been undertaken by the State Party; \n 7.  Notes with concern  that the actual resources allocated by the Punjab Provincial Government may not adequately address the conservation challenges identified in the master plans currently under preparation; \n 8.  Requests  the State Party to implement the following measures, which constitute the benchmarks for removal of the property from the List of the World Heritage in Danger: \n a) Consolidation the remaining foundations of the demolished hydraulic works at the Shalamar Gardens; \n b) Prioritization the allocation and use of the available resources according to the management objectives determined in the master plans; \n 9.  Encourages  the State Party to consider the possible extension of the core and buffer zones as recommended by the UNESCO mission in 2003; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2007 , a report on the progress achieved on the implementation of the above-mentioned recommendations for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007; \n 11.   Decides  to retain the Fort and Shalamar Gardens in Lahore (Pakistan) on the List of World Heritage in Danger .