The World Heritage Committee,   1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7B  ,   2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7B.57 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005),  3.  Notes with concern  the non-compliance with the standards of restoration and the resulting partial loss of authenticity occasioned by the large-scale restoration carried out on the Shahi-Zinda complex and the enlargement of the trunk road between the archaeological site of Afrasiab and the Timurid section of Samarkand;  4.  Also notes with concern  the on-going urban planning scheme (&quot;Project for the reconstruction of the central part of Samarkand&quot;) which may have considerable impact on the integrity of the property and its buffer zones;  5.  Requests  the State Party as a matter of priority to implement the following corrective measures:   a) Develop a management plan with a coherent urban conservation and planning policy for the management of the whole historic town, including the World Heritage areas and its buffer zones;   b) Prepare an inventory and documentation of the historic features and the architectural values;  c) Establish an integrated conservation strategy for the existing residential quarters, as well as for the reintegration and rehabilitation of the surrounding areas that have been demolished;  6.  Urges  the State Party to review the large-scale urban planning schemes, such as the proposed &quot;Project for the reconstruction of the central part of Samarkand&quot;, and to immediately refrain from further demolition of traditional housing areas pending the adoption of the above mentioned conservation policy and management plan;  7.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2007,  a detailed report on the progress made in developing the management plan and on the state of conservation of the site including the corrective measures listed above for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007.  8.  Notes  that should the State Party fail to initiate the above mentioned recommendations and decisions,  the World Heritage Committee may decide to inscribe the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger at its 31st session in 2007 .