Decision 30 COM 7B.31  The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7B ,  2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7B.28 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005),   3.  Urges  the State Party to ensure that the Estrada do Colono Road is not re-opened, ensuring that local concerns are addressed in alternative manners;   4.  Further urges  the State Party to provide full support to the park authorities in carrying out their mandate and to ensure sustainable financing of the property especially relating to ongoing programmes with communities;   5.  Reiterates its concern  about the Lower Igua\xc3\xa7u Hydroelectric Plant project, and about other hydroelectric dam proposals, some in Argentina, near the property;  6.  Requests  the State Party to fully respect the  World Heritage Convention , in particular Article 6.3, and not to take any action to threaten the values and integrity of a property located on the territory of another State Party to this  Convention ;  7.  Also requests  the State Party to deny authorization for the dams;  8.  Further requests  both States Parties of Argentina and Brazil to provide a report to the World Heritage Centre and IUCN by  1 December 2006  containing the full details on the nature and extent of existing and proposed hydroelectric projects, along with their potential impacts on both Iguazu and Igua\xc3\xa7u National Parks prior to taking any decision to proceed, so as to allow the World Heritage Centre and IUCN to assess whether a joint World Heritage Centre/IUCN mission to the property is necessary before the next Committee session;   9.  Recommends  that a framework of indicators of the state of conservation of Igua\xc3\xa7u National Park, including indicators of those management issues raised in the State Party report, is developed to form the basis of ongoing monitoring of this property;   10.  Requests moreover  the State Party of Brazil to provide the World Heritage Centre with a detailed report by  1 February 2007  on the state of conservation of the property, including an update on the Estrada do Colono Road and the issue of sustainable financing, for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007.