The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document   WHC-05/29.COM/7A   and the   Draft Decision  29COM 7A.7.Rev  ,   2.  Recalling  Decision  28 COM 15A.7  adopted at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004),  3.  Takes note  of the report of the joint 2005 UNESCO-IUCN monitoring mission, presented by IUCN at its 29th session (Durban, 2005),  4.  Commends  the State Party of Senegal on the progress made regarding the control of the invasive species ( Salvinia molesta  and  Pistia stratiotes ) within the Park and on the protection of the values for which the site was inscribed;  5.  Expresses serious concern  over the fact that the systematic water management system which addressed regulation of water flows, hydrological monitoring, and other factors and which was put in place in the property with assistance of IUCN Senegal, is no longer operational, leading to salinization of soils, increased sedimentation and an increasing impact of invasive species;  6.  Notes  the other threats and issues observed by the joint 2005 UNESCO/IUCN monitoring mission, in particular cattle grazing and hunting in the property and buffer zone, lack of a management plan and sustained funding for the management of the property and constant changes in staff, resulting in a loss of capacity to manage the property;  7.  Urges  the State Party to take necessary measures to restore systematic hydrological monitoring and proper water management, as well as other habitat management measures identified by the joint 2005 UNESCO/IUCN monitoring mission;  8.  Requests  the State Party to implement the other recommendations of the monitoring mission with regard to visitor management, access management, management of the buffer zone and re-organisation of the National Park Authority;  9.  Invites  the State Party to organize as soon as possible a multi-stakeholder workshop to discuss the implementation of the recommendations of the mission, create new partnerships with local stakeholders for the management of property and its buffer zone and update the 2002 management plan;  10.  Requests  the State Party to submit by  1 February 2006  a report on the state of conservation of the property and on progress in the implementation of the recommendations of the 2005 monitoring mission, for examination by the Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006); 11.   Decides  to retain the Djoudj National Bird Sanctuary (Senegal) on the   List of World Heritage in Danger.