The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7A.25 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Takes note  of the progress achieved in implementing the corrective measures identified by the World Heritage Committee in 2006, including by restoring and maintaining 42 communal irrigation systems within the property and by setting up a Project Development Unit to mobilise financial resources; \n 4.  Welcomes  the steps undertaken towards the development of a twinning programme of exchange and cooperation between the World Heritage property of the Rice Terraces of the Philippines Cordilleras and the Cinque Terre property (Italy); \n 5.  Urges  the State Party to continue its work on the corrective measures adopted at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006), particularly with regard to the implementation of the 2004 conservation and management plan; the development of a resource strategy; of zoning, land-use plans and of a specific plan for the promotion of community based tourism at the property; and the establishment of appropriate control procedures for development projects within the property; \n 6.  Reiterates its requests  to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, a proposal of the Desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger and a revised timeframe for the implementation of the corrective measures, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 7.  Also requests  the State Party to supply further details of the proposed mini-power project, including benefits to local communities, and to undertake an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the project; \n 8.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  1 February 2009,  a report on the state of conservation of the property and the implementation of the above recommendations, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 9.   Decides  to retain the Rice Terraces of the Philippine Cordilleras (Philippines) on the List of World Heritage in Danger .