The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.45 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Notes  the results of the reactive monitoring mission that visited the property in March 2010; \n 4.  Regrets  that there is no possibility to correct the adverse impact of the Ahmed Baba Cultural Centre and amphitheatre built near the Sankore Mosque to allow it to be in harmony with its urban environment, and  expresses great concern  that since its inauguration, the centre has been unused and is already beginning to deteriorate; \n 5.  Also notes  the possibility of a project to improve the public space around the Sankore Mosque led by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture and  requests  the State Party to submit details of such a project to the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies before any commitment is made, in line with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 6.  Further notes  the initiative for working towards an extension of the property to encompass the Old City and  also requests  the State Party to consider ways of harnessing resources to commence works of the documentation and planning frameworks necessary for the envisaged extension of the property, as recommended by the mission, before the urban deterioration has reached an irreversible stage; \n 7.  Furthermore notes  the possible project to demolish ruined houses northwest of the Djingareyber Mosque in order to provide more space around the mosque, and  further requests  the State Party to submit details on the project to the World Heritage Centre, for evaluation by the Advisory Bodies, before any commitment is made, in line with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 8.  Urges  the State Party to strengthen the inter-ministerial Committee for Timbuktu and the Management Committee, and to facilitate more regular meetings between them; \n 9.  Also urges  the State Party to finalize the urban building regulations and a land-use plan for the Old City and its buffer zone; \n 10.  R  equests furthermore  the State Party to address the need for waste removal especially around the mausoleums and to implement the priority actions for the repair work needed on the Sidi Yahia Mosque; \n 11.  Encourages  the State Party to attract the necessary resources to conduct a pilot project for repairing and renovating a dozen or so houses in the Old City with a training component for craftsmen; \n 12.  Finally   requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011 , an updated report on the state of conservation of the property and the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.