The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/INF.10 , \n 2.  Recalling  the discussion on the "Global Strategy for a representative, balanced and credible World Heritage List" at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), and the many experts reports, secretariat documents, notably the "Challenges for the Millennium"; \n 3.   Noting  that the  World Heritage Convention  is approaching its fortieth anniversary in 2012 as well as the inscription of the 1000th property to the World Heritage List; \n 4.   Recognizing  that    the success and growing complexity and diversity of the  Convention  pose challenges and opportunities that could not have been fully envisaged when it came into force; \n 5.   Considers  it appropriate to reflect on the achievements of nearly forty years of heritage protection through the  Convention ; \n 6.   Agrees  that it is timely to consider how best to respond to these challenges and opportunities for the more effective implementation of the  World Heritage Convention  in the coming decades; \n 7.   Requests  the World Heritage Centre to convene, before the 33rd session in 2009, a workshop in Paris to reflect on the future of the  World Heritage Convention , identify global strategic issues, key challenges, trends and opportunities facing the World Heritage Convention and develop approaches to address these issues, as well as synergies with other international instruments; \n 8.   Welcomes  the offer of Australia to co-sponsor the workshop and calls upon the World Heritage Centre to identify (an) interested State(s) Party(ies) to co-sponsor this workshop; \n 9.   Invites  World Heritage Committee members, States Parties, and Advisory Bodies to make written submissions on the issues identified in paragraph 7 above, amongst others,  to assist in the establishment of the agenda and preparation of materials for the workshop, to the World Heritage Centre by  1 October 2008 ; \n 10.   Decides  to consider the results of this workshop at its 33rd session in 2009 and to present a report on these issues for consideration to the next session of the General Assembly of States Parties in 2009.