&nbsp;The World Heritage Committee; \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.40 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Acknowledges  the information provided by the States Parties of France and Spain on the actions being taken in response to the previous decisions by the World Heritage Committee, but  regrets  that a joint report was not provided as requested; \n 4.  Welcomes  the establishment of a Joint Steering Committee and Charter for the property, on a mutually agreed basis, and  requests  the two States Parties to confirm the terms of reference for the Joint Steering Committee, and to elaborate a jointly agreed management plan for the property as a whole including clear indicators for the operation of the Charter, and an agreed programme of specific joint management actions and projects; \n 5.  Remains concerned  that increased support for agro-pastoralism, which underpins the cultural landscape, has not been addressed and  reiterates its requests  to the two States Parties to provide more proactive management to ensure that agro-pastoralism is seen as key mechanism that underpins the sustainable development of the property; \n 6.  Also regrets  that, whilst some reductions in the level of impact of the Gavarnie Festival have been undertaken, the request of the World Heritage Committee for the relocation of the Festival or the mitigation of all of its negative impacts on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property has not been implemented, and therefore  strongly urges  the State Party of France to increase its efforts towards an agreed alternative location for the Festival by 2012; \n 7.  Also welcomes  the progress achieved in the development of plans for the closure of the Troumouse Road, and  also urges  the State Party of France to complete the necessary studies and implement agreed plans for the closure of the road by 2012; \n 8.  Also reiterates its request  to the two States Parties to develop with the Joint Steering Committee and the Advisory Bodies a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value for the property, in the correct format by  1 February 2011 ; \n 9.  Further reiterates its request  to the two States Parties to organize a transboundary workshop, before the end of 2010, and in cooperation with the Joint Steering Committee for the property, the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, to support the establishment and consolidation of a joint vision and management arrangements for the property, as well as to assist the elaboration of the Statement of Outstanding Universal Value for the property; \n 10.  Also requests  the States Parties of France and Spain to submit to the World Heritage Centre, before  1 February 2012 , a single joint report by both States Parties on the progress made in addressing the above recommendations, including the terms of reference and meetings of the Joint Steering Committee, the activities and projects undertaken within the framework of the Charter for Cooperation by the Joint Steering Committee and other actors, increased support for agro-pastoralism and the confirmation of plans for the relocation of the Gavarnie Festival and the closure of the Troumouse Road, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012.