The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/11F ,  2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 11C.1  adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005),  3.  Takes note  of the Report of   Progress Report on the implementation of the recommendations of the Periodic Report for Africa;   4.  Acknowledges  the efforts of the World Heritage Centre in assisting African States Parties in improving the implementation of the  World Heritage Convention  and in conserving properties and the progress thus far achieved in implementing the Action Plan from the Periodic Report for Africa adopted by the World Heritage Committee at its 26th session (Budapest, 2002);   5.  Further acknowledges  with satisfaction concerning the support provided by financial partners to Africa Regional Programme such as, the Nordic World Heritage Foundation (NWHF), Italy and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP ) for hosting and supporting the organization of the Regional Seminar on Managing World Heritage properties in Africa,  further appeals    to the international community both public and private as well as funds and foundations to continue to provide assistance towards the attainment of the objectives contained in the Action Plan of the Africa Periodic report;   6.  Invites  Africa Regional Programme partners such as NWHF, AWHF to cooperate with the World Heritage Centre, IUCN, ICOMOS and ICCROM with view to designing a long-term capacity building and institutional development programme for World Natural Heritage in Africa built on the efforts so far achieved through the Regional Programme and based on the model of the Africa 2009 programme that would ensure sustained reinforcement of World Heritage activities through capacity and institutional building, thematic meetings and networking;  7.  Welcomes  the launching of the African World Heritage Fund (AWHF) held in May 2006 and  encourages  States Parties to support and contribute to the Fund;   8.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre to collaborate with the relevant States Parties and with other UNESCO Departments with view to organizing the side-event dedicated to the African World Heritage cities at the 4th Africities Summit;  \xc2\xa0  9.  Further requests  the Centre, ICOMOS, ICCROM and IUCN in collaboration with other States Parties through the AWHF to advocate the enhancement of the Africa Programme.  10.  Requests  the Director of the World Heritage Centre to report at its 32nd session in 2008 on the implementation of the recommendations of the Periodic Report for Africa.