The World Heritage Committee, 1. Having examined Document   WHC-05/29.COM/7B.Add   and the   Draft     Decision 29 COM 7B.29.Rev,  29 COM 7B.29.Rev ,  2. Recalling its Decision  28 COM 15B.31  adopted at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004),  3. Notes with concern the on-going events in Galapagos and their potentially negative impact on the integrity of the Galapagos National Park and Marine Reserve;  4. Requests the State Party of Ecuador to ensure by 1 February 2007 the full application of the provisions of the Special Law for Galapagos of its attendant regulations, which set the legal framework under which all activities in Galapagos take place;  5. Regrets that the State Party did not submit a report for the examination of the property as requested by the Committee;  6. Encourages the State Party to implement all necessary measures that would reestablish the Galapagos National Park Service\xe2\x80\x99s credibility and authority in carrying out its statutory mandate;  7. Invites the Director General of UNESCO to launch, in cooperation with the State Party, a high level initiative, with the participation of other interested UN bodies and donors, and with the objective of developing a practical, consensus-based long term \xe2\x80\x9cvision\xe2\x80\x9d for Galapagos focusing on conservation and sustainable development  8. Also requests the State Party to invite, in the context of the abovementioned initiative, a joint UNESCO/IUCN mission to the property to examine its state of conservation and in particular to advise in the development of a long term vision initiative for Galapagos Islands, focusing on conservation and sustainable development, and on whether conditions warrant for inclusion of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger;  9. Further requests the State Party to submit a report by  1 February 2006  on the application of the Special Law for Galapagos, with an emphasis on migratory control and illegal fishing, for examination by the Committee at its 30th session\xc2\xa0(Vilnius, 2006).