The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7B ,  2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7B.6 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005),  3.  Notes with concern  that progress on reviewing the 2000 management plan and delineating boundaries remains very slow and that the State Party is yet to submit a revised boundary for the World Heritage property;  4.  Notes with concern  recent reports indicating that the current management plan would conditionally permit mining activity (exploration and production of oil, gas and minerals) in all zones of the World Heritage property and requests the State Party to urgently provide clarifications;  5.  Notes with serious concern  the new information received by the World Heritage Centre and IUCN indicating that the State Party has transferred an Exploration and Production Sharing Agreement for an area within the property from one international oil company to another, reinforcing the concerns over the deficiencies in the current management plan expressed above and in the report of the 2000 IUCN monitoring mission;     6.  Recalls  that, according to paragraph 180 of the  Operational Guidelines , any current and planned exploitation of oil, gas or minerals in the property would make the case for inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger;  7.  Requests  the State Party to provide, as a matter of urgency, the World Heritage Centre with detailed information about the status of any oil exploration and production activities within the property and their potential impacts on the property;  8.  Urges  the State Party to invite a joint monitoring mission of the World Heritage Centre and IUCN to assess the state of conservation of the property, including the status of any oil exploration and production activities within the property and their potential impacts on the property;  9.  Requests  the State Party to prepare a draft version of a map showing the proposed revision of the boundaries of the property, to be submitted to IUCN and the World Heritage Centre by  30 November 2006  for comments, in view of its finalization and submission by  1 February 2007;   10.  Further requests  the State Party to submit by  1 February 2007  a draft revised management plan based on the revised boundaries of the property and a report on the state of conservation of the property, including an accurate estimate of the status and trends of the Arabian Oryx population and an update on the state of implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding prepared between the Sultanate of Oman and the United Arab Emirates for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 31st session in 2007.