The World Heritage Committee,  1. Having examined Document   WHC-05/29.COM/7B.Rev  ,  2. Recalling its Decision  28 COM 15B.22  adopted at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004);  3. Commends the States Parties of the Russian Federation and Mongolia for their efforts in enhancing their co-operation in order to implement, as required by the Committee at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004) a plan to reduce sources of pollution in the Selenga River Basin;  4. Notes with serious concern new information received on the construction of the Eastern Siberia \xe2\x80\x93 Pacific Ocean pipeline;  5. Notes that the State Party of the Russian Federation provided an update on the status of the planned oil pipeline and on potential or given impacts to the integrity of Lake Baikal;  6. Urges the State Party to inform the World Heritage Centre about the details of the pipeline construction project and requests the authorities to take measures to eliminate all direct and indirect threats to the World Heritage property;  7. Notes the serious concerns regarding the potential impact of the proposed new route for the oil and gas pipeline on the outstanding universal value of the property and considers that, according to paragraph 180 b of the  Operational  \xc2\xa0Guidelines,  any pipeline development crossing the watershed of Lake Baikal and main tributaries would make the case for inscription of Lake Baikal on the List of World Heritage in Danger;  8. Requests the State Party to provide, as a matter of urgency, detailed information on the construction of the Eastern Siberia-Pacific Ocean pipeline, and to invite a joint mission of the World Heritage Centre and IUCN to the property at the appropriate time;  9. Further requests, for examination by the Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006), that :  a) the State Party provide a detailed report on the current situation of the property to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2006 ;  b) IUCN provide a detailed report, including a sound analysis of environmental and other risks, in view of the potential threats to the outstanding universal value of the property when the pipeline crosses the watershed of Lake Baikal and main tributaries; and  c) the World Heritage Centre and IUCN report on the outcome of their joint mission referred to in paragraph 8;  10. Decides that, on the basis of the information referred to in paragraph 9, the Committee may consider the inscription of Lake Baikal on the List of World Heritage in Danger.