The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7A.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7A.1  adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Regrets  that the workshop to develop an emergency plan as requested by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session had not yet been organized but  notes  that it is planned for September 2010; \n 4.  Notes with concern  the continuing insecurity in the border area of the property with Chad and Sudan, resulting in persistence of poaching and illegal land use; \n 5.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to strengthen trans-boundary cooperation with Chad and Sudan in order to control poaching and the other illicit exploitations of the natural resources; \n 6.  Recalls its invitation  to the Director-General of UNESCO and the Chairperson of the World Heritage Committee, to organize a meeting with the authorities of the Central African Republic, Chad and Sudan and the representatives of the African Union, competent sub-regional organizations and the Director General of IUCN to discuss progress made in addressing the deteriorating state of conservation, with the assistance of the World Heritage Fund and other funds, if needed; \n 7.  Urges  the State Party to develop and implement an emergency plan to restore the integrity of the property, in collaboration with all the stakeholders, based on the recommendations of the joint World Heritage Centre/IUCN mission of 2009;&nbsp; \n 8.  Warmly welcomes  the reinforcement of field staff with the involvement of local communities in the surveillance operations of the property, and the support of the national army, to better cope with the many threats to the property; \n 9.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to finalize, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and IUCN, the draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, including the conditions of integrity, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011; \n 10.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011 , a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and on the progress made in implementing corrective measures and other recommendations of the 2009 mission, as well as additional information on the proposed zoning of the property, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011; \n 11.  Decides  to continue application of the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism to the property; \n  12.  Also decides  to maintain the Manovo Gounda St Floris National Park (Central African Republic) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.