The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7B , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7B.76 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Notes  the lack of progress in the implementation of the activity concerning the drainage problems and the development of a management plan; \n 4.  Expresses  its serious concern about recent works carried out at the site concerning the installation of draining pipes along the main stupa of the Pararpur Vihara and light fittings in its immediate vicinity, which appear to have had a negative impact on the heritage values of the property; \n 5.  Requests  the State Party of Bangladesh to suspend the above-mentioned works and implement the appropriate mitigating measures to prevent possible deterioration of the property until the situation is reassessed, as well as to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ Advisory Bodies Reactive Monitoring mission to the property, preferably before the end of 2008, in order to: \n a) assess the state of conservation of the property and particularly the impact of water and humidity on the brick masonry; \n b) review the effectiveness of the management system in place. \n 6.  Urges  the State Party to strengthen the capacity of the Department of Archaeology by providing it with adequate human and financial resources; \n 7.  Also requests  the State Party to continue its efforts towards the definition of the boundaries, the solution of the drainage problems and the overall strengthening of the management system at the property; \n 8.  Encourages  the State Party to submit a request for International Assistance to undertake a project to define the boundaries of the property and the buffer zone; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value including the conditions of integrity and authenticity, and to submit it to the World Heritage Centre for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 10.  Requests moreover  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010,  the proposed delimitation of the property and its buffer zone, as well the management plan for the property in three copies for review by the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies; \n 11.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2009  a progress report on the above issues, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009.