The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7B Add.2 , \n 2.  Expressing its appreciation  to the State Party for the general success of its efforts to halt high-rise developments in the buffer zone of the World Heritage property with the exception of the development plan of the Southern Kipsala zone; \n 3.  Acknowledging  the details provided by the State Party of the many effective efforts undertaken over the decade since inscription to strengthen conservation of the World Heritage property, \n 4.  Noting  the State Party\'s contention that the development projects and plans at Kipsala should be accepted given their being in place at the time of inscription in 1997 and in subsequent discussions of the World Heritage Committee since its 27th session in 2003 (Decision  27 COM 7B.69  paragraph 5), \n 5.  Also acknowledging  the new Conception Project proposal for the left bank of the Daugava River presented to the joint World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS mission of March 2008,  regrets  that this plan does not deviate greatly from previous submissions, and will result in significant negative impacts on the Outstanding Universal Value of the World Heritage property; \n 6.  Also regrets  the construction of a new 20 storey tower within Kipsala which is now under way; \n 7.  Notes  the results of the 2008 joint World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS Reactive Monitoring mission,  endorses  its recommendations and  requests  the  State Party to implement them; \n 8.  Decides  that the state of conservation of the property is not such as to merit consideration of inclusion of this property on the World Heritage List in Danger at this stage; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to strengthen its efforts to reduce the impact of projects planned for realisation in Kipsala mainly by reducing considerably the height of any ongoing and new construction, and to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2009 , a detailed report on such efforts for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009.