The World Heritage Committee,  1. Having examined Document   WHC-05/29.COM. 7A  ,  2. Recalling Decision  28 COM 15A.17  taken at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004),  3. Takes note with concern of the information provided by the State Party of Egypt and expresses its concerns over the deterioration of the property caused by rising groundwater levels and other threats;  4. Invites the international community to support the State Party in its efforts towards removing the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger;  5. Urges the State Party to adopt long-term and sustainable measures with all the concerned national institutions, along the lines of the recommendations contained in the UNESCO Mission Report of 2002 and the Committee\xe2\x80\x99s Decisions  27 COM 7A.18  and  28 COM 15A.17 ;  6. Requests the State Party to invite a joint mission of the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS, within the next two months, to the property in order to:  a) assess the situation of the property \xe2\x80\x93 both in terms of the state of conservation of the archaeological remains and in terms of the hydrological issue;  b) evaluate the loss of outstanding universal value of the property and of its integrity;  c) review the proposed project;  d) determine the necessary steps towards the implementation of the recommendation referred in paragraph 5, including the setting up of benchmarks with a time frame for their fulfillment, the setting up of an emergency plan while the project is taking place, and the formulation of proposals for a buffer zone ; and  e) provide the necessary elements to orient the Committee in recommending a program of corrective measures;  7. Further requests the State Party to submit, by  1 February 2006,  a report on the progress made in implementing the abovementioned recommendations for the examination of the Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006).  8. Decides to consider at its 30th session, in consultation with the State Party and on the basis of the information provided by the mission and the State Party, whether the property should be retained in the World Heritage List in Danger and the World Heritage List. 9.  Also decides to retain Abu Mena (Egypt) on the List of World Heritage in   Danger.