The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7B ,  2.  Congratulates  the State Party and the Authority for the Protection and Management of Angkor and the Region of Siem Reap (APSARA) for their commitment in pursuing various actions regarding safeguarding and sustainable development, in cooperation with the international community;   3.  Notes with satisfaction  that the international community continues its commitment to the protection of Angkor even after the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, through the implementation of a variety of safeguarding and development projects;   4.  Expresses its full support  to the recommendations made by the State Party and the international community, represented by the  International Coordinating Committee for the Safeguarding and Development of the Historic Site of Angkor (ICC) , during its sessions in 2005 concerning the strengthening of the management for protected Zones 1 and 2, and the preparation of a management plan for the property;   5.  Requests  the State Party to work in close cooperation with the World Heritage Centre in the implementation of the ICC recommendations and those of the September 2005 mission, and in the preparation of a management plan that should include a general methodological framework for the conservation, restoration and maintenance interventions for the monuments of Angkor;   6.  Encourages  the donor countries to give priority support to the preparation of a global management plan for Angkor;   7.  Encourages  the State Party to strengthen the legal and planning capabilities of the national authority APSARA;   8.  Recommends  that a new ad hoc group of experts for sustainable development be established at an early date;   9.  Requests  the State Party to submit, before  1 February 2008 , a report on the activities carried out and progress made in the implementation of the recommendations with regard to the strengthening of management control for Zones 1 and 2 of Angkor, and the preparation of a management plan, for examination by the Committee at its 32nd session in 2008.