The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  document WHC-10/34.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.93  adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Acknowledges  the results of the joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission of February 2010; \n 4.  Deeply regrets  the demolition of the Eastern Gallery and its rebuilding without prior information being submitted to the World Heritage Centre, for review by the Advisory Bodies, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines , \n 5.  Requests  the State Party to update the Management Plan clearly setting out approaches to conservation, restoration and renewal, in particular concerning rehabilitation and modernization works; \n 6.  Urges  the State Party to develop an overall conservation approach for the restoration of Corpus Christi Church and the installation of heating, including the advice of experts on wall painting and heating, and to submit this to the World Heritage Centre, for review by ICOMOS, before any commitments to the work are made; \n 7.  Encourages  the State Party to explore the possibility of reinstating, documented original furnishings for the former residence of the Radziwill, and also original paintings from Nesvizh, currently held in the National Art Museum to support the authenticity of the property; \n 8.  Also encourages  the Department of Protection of Historical and Cultural Heritage and Restoration to increase its staff of specialists in conservation, restoration and documentation in view of the enormous tasks of protecting and conserving the Belarusian monuments and sites; \n 9.  Further encourages  the State Party to adopt other planning measures, in order to protect the urban landscape of the town of Nesvizh where a number of new buildings erected in past decades impact on the historic centre and the visual integrity of the property; \n 10.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2011 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, including all above-mentioned points, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.