At its twenty-second session the Bureau was informed that a giant holding pool of the Aznalcollar mine owned by the Canadian-Swedish Boliden-Apirsa Company burst resulting in an ecological disaster. Although the main toxic flow had been diverted away from the National Park, the adjoining areas have been badly damaged. The Bureau was informed that the spill could spread into the World Heritage area as pollutants dispersed more widely. The State Party had submitted a number of technical reports on the situation and on actions taken to mitigate the threats. The President of the Spanish MAB Committee had proposed the organisation of an international conference to review actions taken and rehabilitation plans elaborated for the conservation of the site and provided an outline for a project entitled &laquo;Do&ntilde;ana 2005&raquo;. The Bureau had expressed its serious concerns on the long-term restoration of the property and urged the State Party to undertake all possible measures to mitigate the threats. Furthermore, the Bureau had requested the State Party to collaborate with UNESCO, IUCN and the Ramsar Convention to prepare an international expert conference to develop a long-term vision and to compile a detailed report in time for the twenty-second session of the World Heritage Committee. \n At its twenty-second extraordinary session the Bureau reviewed the findings of a Centre mission to the site from 10 to 13 November 1998. The Centre received a number of documents presented by the Spanish authorities on the actions undertaken since the June 1998 session of the Bureau. \n The Bureau noted that the World Heritage site and the Biosphere Reserve are currently little affected whereas the Natural Park around the site has been impacted by the toxic spill. The Bureau and the Committee (Kyoto, 1998) while noting and commending the substantial actions taken by the Spanish authorities, suggested that the State Party proceed with great caution in re-starting mining activities and requested that EIAs be carried out for each step. The Committee requested that the long-term impacts of mining on both the World Heritage site and the UNESCO Biosphere Reserve be monitored. \n The Minister for the Environment of Spain, via a letter to the Director-General of UNESCO, has proposed that the conference on the future of Do&ntilde;ana be organized during May &ndash; June 1999. The Director of the Centre, via his letter to the Minister has suggested that more time should be given for collaboration between the State Party, UNESCO, IUCN and the Ramsar Convention in preparing such an important conference for developing a long-term vision for Do&ntilde;ana. Furthermore, the Ambassador of Spain by letter of 3 May to the Director of the Centre, has submitted the following documents which were requested by the Bureau in June 1998: (a) &laquo;Do&ntilde;ana 2005 - hydrological regeneration of the watersheds and river channels flowing towards Do&ntilde;ana National Park&raquo; and its development; (b) copy of the decree, i.e. the Law 7/1999 concerning Do&ntilde;ana 2005; and (c) information on the accident that occurred in 1998 and its implications for the conservation of the site as of 23 April 1999. These documents were transmitted to IUCN for review. \n IUCN informed the Bureau that a WCPA representative visited the site from 6 to 10 June 1999. IUCN noted that restoration activities were successful and that monitoring programmes have been set up.&nbsp; The State Party should be commended for these initiatives. Due to these measures, the World Heritage site has not been directly affected, however there are important wetland areas surrounding the site, which may have been affected, and which form part of the ecosystem. IUCN raised concerns about the reopening of the Aznalcollar mine and noted that three issues need consideration: (a) to make the dam for the collection of waste water fully impermeable; (b) the need for a hydrological study for monitoring potential infiltration of waste water to the aquifers of the area and (c) the need for consultation with all stakeholders. IUCN also noted the need for co-ordinated and effective buffer zone management. \n Following the review of new information provided by IUCN, the Bureau requested the State Party, the Centre and IUCN to collaborate in the organization of the conference on the future of Do&ntilde;ana. The Bureau furthermore expressed serious concerns regarding the possible reopening of the Aznalcollar mine, and the tailings dam which should be fully impermeable and for which a hydrological study should be performed. The Bureau furthermore encouraged the State Party to give priority attention to implement key actions as proposed by IUCN and to provide regularly progress reports on implementation, including progress achieved in the implementation of these priorities. The Bureau requested IUCN and the Centre to provide an up-to-date report including results of the conference to the extraordinary session of the Bureau, and the State Party to submit a progress report by 15 September 1999.