The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.96 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Notes  the outcome of the World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to the Historic Centre of Prague of January 2010; \n 4.  Urges  the State Party to implement the recommendations of the mission, particularly in relation to: \n a) The Blanka Tunnel: ensure the downgrading of the \'Eastern Highway, halt the proposed tunnel behind the national museum and remove the sections of the Eastern Highway from the Eastern edge of the property, \n b) The completion of the high-rise limitations plan, and \n c) Clarification of the rules presently in force to manage processes such as infill, reconstruction, rehabilitation and conservation; \n 5.  Requests  the State Party to keep the World Heritage Centre informed about emerging major development proposals especially development at Visegrad station and Zitkov stations in accordance with the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 6.  Regrets  that the restoration of Charles Bridge was carried out without adequate conservation advice on materials and techniques and  also   requests  the State Party to ensure that any future works are based on detailed assessment and documentation using skilled craftspeople and conservators; \n 7.  Further requests  the State Party to ensure that Pruhonice Park is protected and managed as an integral part of the World Heritage property; \n 8.  Reminds  the State Party of the buffer zone adopted at the time of the inscription and that any changes to this buffer zone have to be submitted to the World Heritage Centre in conformity with the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 9.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2011 , an updated report on the state of conservation of the property and the implementation of the requests above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.