The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7B.Add.2 , \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  30 COM 7B.46  and  31 COM 7B.55  adopted at its 30th (Vilnius, 2006), and 31st (Christchurch, 2007) sessions respectively, \n 3.  Congratulates  the State Party for its efforts in managing its World Heritage properties; \n 4.  Reiterates its request  to: \n a) revise the design of the Avenue of the sphinxes and its surroundings; \n b) abandon the project of building a landing stage for tourism cruise boats on the Western Bank of the Nile close to the new bridge, and to limit all such developments to the Eastern Bank; \n 5.  Also reiterates its request  to the State Party to prepare and/or finalise the management plans for Karnak, Luxor and the West Bank and to integrate these plans into one comprehensive and coordinated Management plan, including a conservation plan and a tourism control strategy; \n 6.  Urges  the State Party to establish a formal coordination mechanism under the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Antiquities between the latter, the Supreme Council of Luxor, the international scientific teams and other concerned stakeholders, and to hold regular consultations prior to the approval and launching of projects affecting the property and its buffer zone; \n 7.  Invites  the State Party to strengthen efforts to restore Hassan Fathi\'s new Gurnah village and to forward all projects related to the village prior to their approval for review by the World Heritage Committee; \n 8.  Further reiterates its request  to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, including the conditions of integrity and authenticity, as a central part of the establishment of the management plan and related co-ordinated mechanism, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 9.  Requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS Reactive Monitoring mission in early 2009 to examine the progress made by the State Party in addressing the situation and to report about it to the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 10.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre,  by 1 February 2009 , a detailed progress report on the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009.