The World Heritage Committee,  1. Having examined Document   WHC-05/29.COM/7B.Rev  ,  2. Recalling its Decision  28 COM 15B.7 , adopted at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004),  3. Takes note of the intention of the State Party of Mauritania to draw up a Development and Management Plan (DPM) for the Banc d\'Arguin Park (PNBA), whilst inviting the authorities concerned to set up management tools, which will be effective in the long term and form part of an initiative more centred on the "programme" approach;  4. Requests the State Party to complete, in coordination with the World Heritage Centre and all the Park\'s partners, the Development and Management Plan for the property, following the recommendations of the round table discussions organised by the World Heritage Centre in November 2004;  5. Urges the State Party to send to the World Heritage Centre, for its comments, all the documents concerning the Environmental Impact Assessment studies for the mining operations drawn up by all the oil companies operating in the area around the PNBA;  6. Calls upon the State Party to apply Law 2000/025 constituting the Fishing Code in Mauritania, which prohibits any use of dragnets in the Mauritanian exclusive economic zone, as well as to approve the application decree for Law 2000/45 constituting the framework law on the environment;  7. Reiterates its request to the State Party to sign the 1992 Conventions  (2)  allowing it to claim from the International Oil Pollution Compensation Fund (IOPCF), as well as to submit a request to the Marine Environment Protection Committee of the International Maritime Organisation, the specialized body responsible for the elaboration of standards aimed at improving the safety of international maritime transport and preventing pollution of the marine environment, in order to obtain for the Banc d\'Arguin Park the status of "particularly sensitive sea area" (PSSA);  8. Invites the State Party to consider the creation of a biosphere reserve, including the PNBA and its Cap Blanc Satellite Reserve, as well as other adjacent territories, recognised as being of major importance in the relationship between man and natural resources;  9. Calls upon the State Party and the World Bank to integrate in the Public Sector Capacity Building Project, one of whose sections will concern the environment, a pilot project for which the PNBA would constitute a focal point; 10. Requests the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, before  1F  ebruary 2006,  a report on progress with the implementation of the abovementioned measures, which takes due account of the measures needed to alleviate the threats to the livelihood of the local population, for examination by the Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius,2006).   (2) The International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1992, and the International Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage, 1992.