The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7A  ,  \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM   7A.22 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005), \n 3.  Commends  the State Party for the strong progress made towards the effective management of the property, as well as for the quality of the draft Integrated Management Plan (IMP); \n 4.  Further commends  the State Party for having suspended the work on the commercial complex-and-interpretation centre and for the decision to identify an alternate location for the complex; \n 5.  Notes  the progress in the preparation of urban building regulations for the villages in the core zone, as well as the steps taken towards the preparation of the Master Plan for the regulation of development activities within the World Heritage area; \n 6.  Takes note  of the completion of the bypass road which will divert heavy vehicles away from the core zone and the efforts made by the Hampi World Heritage Area Management Authority for the preparation of traffic control regulations; \n 7.  Expresses its concern  about the substantial increase of illegal construction in the core zone; \n 8.  Requests  the State Party to promptly undertake the following actions: \n a) Finalize, officially adopt and implement the Integrated Management Plan (IMP); \n b) Provide adequate staffing and financial resources to the Hampi World Heritage Area Management Authority and its technical unit, in order to ensure the rapid and comprehensive implementation of the IMP; \n c) Rehabilitate the abandoned construction site of the commercial complex-and-interpretation centre, restore its former land-use, and submit information on the alternative location of the complex to the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies for examination; \n d) Establish and officially adopt urban building regulations, as well as a heritage-based Master Plan, including land-use regulations; \n e) Exert strict control over illegal construction in the core zone; \n f) Officially adopt traffic regulations to ban heavy duty vehicular traffic from the World Heritage area and to submit these regulations to the World Heritage Centre; \n g) Reconsider and adapt the design and dimensions of the Anegundi Bridge in view of respecting the visual integrity of the property; \n h) Appropriately address the statement of significance as an amendment to the finalized IMP once the cultural resource mapping presently being undertaken by HWHAMA is completed, and this by  1 February 2008 ; \n i) Invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS mission to assess the progress made and to report to the World Heritage Committee at its 31st session in 2007. \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2007 , the completed IMP, together with a detailed progress report on the state of conservation of the property, including the state of implementation of the IMP and all above-mentioned actions, for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007; \n 10.   Decides  to remove the Group of Monuments at Hampi (India) from the List of World Heritage in Danger .