The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  30 COM 7B.87, 31 COM 7B.114  and  32 COM 7B.98  adopted at its 30th (Vilnius, 2006), 31st (Christchurch, 2007) and 32nd (Quebec City, 2008) sessions respectively, \n 3.  Welcomes  the information that an "Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on cooperation in pollution prevention of the Baltic Sea by oil and other harmful substances" was signed in October 2009 and that a "Joint Russian and Lithuanian Action Plan for Cooperation in Case of Pollution Accidents in the Baltic Sea" is under development, and  requests  to continue environmental monitoring; \n 4.  Commends  the State Party of Lithuania for inviting a joint ICOMOS/IUCN technical advisory mission and  encourages  it to continue to address the recommendations of the mission to ensure that the management systems and plans are adequate to sustain the Outstanding Universal Value, and that the traditional settlements are protected and conserved and have appropriate planning and development controls in place; \n 5.  Expresses its concern  about the possible tourism economic zone in Kaliningrad, and  also requests  the State Party of the Russian Federation to halt the development projects in the light of their potential impact on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, and to provide full details of plans already approved, and in preparation, and their related Environmental Impact Assessments for evaluation by the World Heritage Centre, and the Advisory Bodies; \n 6.  Also expresses its concern  about the threats to the dunes, as set out in the report from the State Party of the Russian Federation and  further requests  it to provide details of mitigation measures that might be required in the light of measures deployed in the Lithuanian part of the property; \n 7.  Also encourages  the two States Parties to prepare a joint Statement of Outstanding Universal Value for the property as a basis for future management and conservation; and to strengthen collaboration over management and protection in line with assurances made at the time of inscription and to put in place a coordinated management mechanism in line with the requirements of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 8.  Requests  moreover the States Parties of the Russian Federation and Lithuania to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS/IUCN reactive monitoring mission to consider the state of conservation of the transboundary property in relation to threats of development and from the erosion of sand-dunes, and to review the draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value for the property; \n 9.  Finally requests  the States Parties of the Russian Federation and Lithuania to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011 , a joint progress report on the state of conservation of the property and the implementation of the above items, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.