The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7A  ,  \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7A.15 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005), \n 3.  Commends  the State Party for the efforts made in 2005 to complete the property management plan and to continue to strengthen measures for the protection of the property; \n 4.  Notes  that the State Party\'s State of Conservation report submitted 30 January 2006, only briefly mentions the recently developed management plan, without defining corrective measures for implementation as the guiding instrument intended to ensure a long term and integrated approach towards the management of the property; \n 5.  Notes  that the site management plan section dealing with significance, and the related sections in the State Party\'s State of Conservation report concerning integrity/ authenticity, reflect significance beyond that recognized in the inscription of the site under criterion (iii), and are not in conformity with the requirements of the  Operational Guidelines  which relate to the expression of Outstanding Universal Value, authenticity and integrity, and  suggests  that the State Party modify these sections of the management plan and report to the Committee accordingly; \n 6.  Notes  that the management plan prepared for the property encompasses a wider area than that inscribed (in line with the recommendations of the 2004 ICOMOS mission) and  invites  the State Party to signal its intention to the Committee to propose an extension to the original nomination to include those areas addressed by management plan including Kilwa Kivinje, in order to fully integrate the earlier ruins inscribed with the associated living towns, and to consider whether additional criteria may be necessary to fully capture the Outstanding Universal Value of a larger property; \n 7.  Regrets  that the State Party State of Conservation report did not address the recommendations of the ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission of 2004; \n 8.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2007 , a report on the state of conservation of the property including the following information, for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007: \n a) Follow-up action on the recommendations of the ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission of 2004; \n b) Actions taken to update the property\'s statement of significance and integrity/authenticity assessment according to the current requirements of the Operational Guidelines, and the need to focus the expression of significance on the criterion recognized by inscription; \n c) Full and effective implementation of the property management plan of January 2006; \n d) Clarification of its intention to submit an extension to the presently inscribed World Heritage property and possibly to submit associated revised criteria. \n 9.   Decides  to retain the Ruins of Kilwa Kisiwani and Ruins of Songo Mnara   (United Republic of Tanzania) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.