The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7.2,  \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7B.b , \n 3.  Takes note  of, and  endorses  the objectives of the Strategy for Reducing Risks from Disasters at World Heritage properties, and  requests  the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies to work together, along with other UNESCO mechanisms, to prioritise the proposed actions contained in the Strategy; \n 4.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre to disseminate it widely through its web-site and other appropriate means; \n 5.  Calls upon  States Parties to the  Convention  and various global actors for Disaster Reduction to give more consideration to the impacts of disasters on cultural and natural heritage when designing their strategic goals and plans; \n 6.  Further encourages  States Parties to the  Convention , in particular, to integrate concern for World Heritage into wider national disaster reduction plans and documentation programmes, and to develop Management Plans that include a risk-analysis and management component for World Heritage properties located in their territories; \n 7.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies to develop a user-friendly resource material to build-capacity on disaster reduction at World Heritage properties as well as a training module to test it at pilot sites within disaster-prone regions; \n 8.  Also requests  the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies to prepare a revised draft format for Emergency Assistance requests including the requirement to clarify what is the specific serious threat/danger affecting the property, how it might affect its overall outstanding universal value, and how the proposed activity intends to mitigate/prevent it, and submit it to the Committee for examination at its 31st session in 2007; \n 9.  Further requests  the Advisory Bodies to take into account the policies proposed in Point III of the working Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7.2  in the elaboration of the criteria for evaluation of International Assistance requests, to be included to the  Operational Guidelines  in its Annex 9; \n 10.  Invites  the international donor community to support the implementation of the Strategy in developing countries within disaster-prone areas as a priority; \n 11.  Decides  to allocate the amount of USD 25,000 under the World Heritage Fund to contribute to the development and dissemination of a user-friendly resource material to build capacity on disaster reduction at World Heritage properties.