The World Heritage Committee, \n  I  \n 1. Having examined  Documents  WHC-08/32.COM/7A.Add.2 and WHC-08/32.COM/7A.Add 3 , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7A.18 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Also recalling  the relevant provisions on the protection of cultural heritage including, as appropriate, the four Geneva Conventions (1949), the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict of 1954, the Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage of 1972, the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls at the request of Jordan on the World Heritage List (1981) and on the List of World Heritage in Danger (1982), and the recommendations, resolutions and decisions of UNESCO, \n 4.  Affirming  that nothing in the present decision, which aims at the safeguarding of the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls, shall in any way affect the relevant United Nations resolutions and decisions, in particular the relevant Security Council resolutions on the legal status of Jerusalem, \n 5.  Welcomes  the Action Plan for the Safeguarding of the Cultural Heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem developed in the context of the Director-General\'s comprehensive initiative for the safeguarding of the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls and  strongly supports  its implementation in coordination and consultation with the concerned parties; \n 6.  Thanks  international donors for their generous contributions to the Action Plan and  calls upon  the international donor community to further support, through extra-budgetary funding, activities aimed at the safeguarding of the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem, in particular in the context of the Action Plan; \n 7.  Asks  the World Heritage Centre to make technical expertise and assistance available for the future conservation works foreseen in the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls, taking into consideration the activities foreseen in the context of the Action Plan, as needed; \n 8.  Takes note  of the concerns expressed about the archaeological excavations undertaken in the Old City of Jerusalem, and  asks  the Israeli authorities to provide the World Heritage Centre with all relevant and detailed information about them; \n 9.  Urges  Israeli authorities to prevent any actions that could undermine the authenticity and integrity of the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls; \n 10.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre to report on the state of conservation of the property and on the progress in the implementation of the Action Plan for the Safeguarding of the Cultural Heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem at its 33rd session in 2009; \n  II  \n 1.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7A.18  adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), 176 EX/Special Plenary Meeting/Decision, adopted by the Executive Board of UNESCO at its 176th session, and Decision 179 EX/9 adopted by the Executive Board of UNESCO at its 179th session (April 2008), \n 2.  Affirming  that the design of the Mughrabi ascent should maintain the authenticity and integrity of the site, and that no measures, unilateral or otherwise, should be taken which will affect the authenticity and integrity of the site, in accordance with the  Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage  of 1972, \n 3.  Reaffirming  the purpose and spirit of the professional encounter at the technical level of 13 January 2008, as well as the follow-up meeting of 24 February 2008, \n 4.  Requests  the Israeli authorities to continue the cooperation engaged with all concerned parties, in particular with Jordanian and Waqf experts; \n 5.  Asks  the World Heritage Centre to organize a technical follow-up meeting at the site with all concerned parties for additional exchanges of information to enable all necessary inputs to be considered; \n 6.  Being aware  that the process for the design of the Mughrabi ascent, which allows the taking into consideration of the proposals submitted during the professional encounter, is still underway,  requests  the World Heritage Centre to follow closely, in the context of the Reinforced Monitoring mechanism, the developments associated with this process; \n 7.  Thanks  the World Heritage Centre for facilitating the holding of the professional encounter at the technical level of 13 January 2008, as well as the follow-up meeting of 24 February 2008, between Israeli, Jordanian and Waqf experts, as requested by Decision  31 COM 7A.18 ; \n 8.  Takes note  of the proposals for the design of the Mughrabi ascent, as evaluated by the Advisory Bodies, and  asks  that the proposed final design be provided to the World Heritage Centre; \n 9.  Welcomes  the regular information provided by the Israeli National Commission to UNESCO on the on-going activities related to the Mughrabi ascent, and  urges  the Israeli authorities to limit those archaeological activities to consolidation and stabilization works; \n 10.  Decides  to continue with the Reinforced Monitoring mechanism for the state of conservation of the Mughrabi ascent, and  requests  a report from the World Heritage Centre at least every three months, until the 33rd session of the World Heritage Committee in 2009; \n  III  \n 1.   Decides  to retain the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls on the List of World Heritage in Danger.