The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7B ,  2.  Recalling  that the property was inscribed in 2004 for its outstanding universal value as a Cultural Landscape,  3.  Notes with great concern  that the construction project of the &quot;Waldschl\xc3\xb6sschen-Bridge&quot; is located in the core area of the cultural landscape;  4.  Notes with satisfaction  that the national authorities have commissioned a visual impact study, and the City of Dresden has suspended the construction project of the bridge until the discussions by the Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006);  5.  Further notes  the negative results of the visual impact study carried out on the &quot;Waldschl\xc3\xb6sschen bridge&quot;, confirming the impact on the landscape;   6.  Considers  that the construction of the &quot;Waldschl\xc3\xb6sschen bridge&quot; would irreversibly damage the values and integrity of the property in accordance with paragraph 179 (b) of the  Operational Guidelines ;  7.  Requests  the State Party and the City authorities to urgently halt this construction project and to take up discussions with all stakeholders to find alternative solutions so as to ensure the safeguarding of the outstanding universal value of the property and to provide details on this process and a time frame in conformity with Decision  29 COM 7C ;  8.   Decides  to inscribe the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger , with a view to considering delisting the property from the World Heritage List at its 31st session in 2007, if the plans are carried out;   9.  Also requests  the State Party to review without delay the projects in the core zone taking into account the results of the visual impact study and to provide a comprehensive update report to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2007  for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007 in order to review the conditions for removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger.