The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document WHC-06/30.COM/7B,  2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7A.14 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005),  3.  Thanks  the State Party for having made substantial efforts, in conformity with Decision  29 COM 7A.14 , with the view of the achievement of the management plan for Timbuktu;  4.  Thanks  the State Party for having created a local steering committee for the conservation and management of the Old City of Timbuktu;  5.  Also thanks  the State Party for the necessary collective actions undertaken for the elaboration of the management plan and  encourages  it to pursue the development and to finalize the management and conservation plan, and to initiate without further delay activities leading to its implementation;  6.  Congratulates  the State Party and South Africa for their initiative undertaken within the framework of the New Partnership for Africa\'s Development (NEPAD) with the aim of assisting Mali to safeguard the ancient manuscripts of Timbuktu;  7.  Calls to the attention  of the State Party, the impact which may occur as a result of the construction of the Ahmed Baba Cultural Centre on the Sankor\xc3\xa9 mosque;  8.  Invites  the State Party and South Africa to undertake a revision of the architectural design of the cultural centre project and its possible relocation, taking into consideration the recommendations of the World Heritage Centre mission of March 2006 and the outstanding universal value of the property;  9.  Also requests  the State Party to provide the World Heritage Centre an updated report on the state of conservation of the property, by  1 February 2007 , particularly on the progress made in the finalization of the management and conservation plan and the activities initiated for its implementation, as well as for the improvement of the architectural project foreseen for the Ahmed Baba Cultural Centre, for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007;  10.   Reaffirms  its decision not to re-inscribe the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger .