The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7A  ,  \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7A.20 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005), \n 3.  Commends  the State Party for having halted the construction of the road and for the progress achieved for the strengthening of the base of the Minaret by masonry work and the geophysical survey of the site; \n 4.  Reiterates  its strong encouragement of the State Party to construct an alternative footbridge and a ford across the Hari River, in order to enable access of the villagers from the Bedam Valley to the Jam Valley, as well as allowing a limited number of vehicles to cross the river, following the recommendations of the UNESCO mission in February 2004; \n 5.  Urges  the State Party, with assistance from UNESCO and the international community, to continue the on-going efforts for the structural consolidation of the Minaret as recommended by the expert meeting on the continuation of consolidation activities in Jam, organised by the World Heritage Centre in Paris on 15March 2006; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party, with assistance from the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, to elaborate a site management plan for the Minaret and the archaeological remains, taking into account the relevant provisions of the  Operational Guidelines   for the Implementation of the   Convention ; \n 7.  Also requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to assess the state of conservation of the property and to define, in close collaboration with the State Party, benchmarks for corrective measures and related timeframe for the possible removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007; \n 8.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2007 , a report on the state of conservation of this property for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007; and \n 9.   Decides  to retain the Minaret and Archaeological Remains of Jam (Afghanistan) on the List of World Heritage in Danger .