The World Heritage Committee,  1. Having examined Document   WHC-05/29.COM/7B.Rev  ,  2. Recalling its Decision  28 COM 15B.59  adopted at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004),  3. Congratulates the State Party of Indonesia for its efforts in addressing the recommendations of the joint 2003 UNESCO/ICOMOS mission and for the work undertaken to maintain the World Heritage value of the property despite the difficult socio-economic situation faced by the local community;  4. Notes, however, that the report submitted by the State Party did not address most of the specific concerns raised by the World Heritage Committee in its above-mentioned Decision  28 COM 15B.59 ;  5. Requests the State Party to confirm in writing that no major road developments will be allowed within zones 1, 2 and 3 of Borobudur; that no major commercial complexes will be built within any of the protective zones 1 to 5 as defined in the current regulations applied to the property; and that the new proposed entrance and retail precinct (Jagad Jawa) in Zone 3 shall not be erected;  6. Also requests the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS mission to assess the state of conservation of the property;  7. Further requests the State Party to:  a) develop a comprehensive Visitor Management Plan to mitigate the negative impact of mass tourism on the property and raise-awareness of the public on the need to protect the World Heritage property;  b) provide detailed information on the existing institutional framework in place for the management of the property, with particular attention paid to the mechanisms established to ensure the appropriate coordination among all the concerned parties. Proposals for the possible strengthening of the current system should be also added, if appropriate; and  c) provide further details on the strategy being developed for the sustainable development of the area surrounding the Borobudur World Heritage property, elaborating in particular on the characteristics of the proposed "Mandala" approach and its operational implications.  8. Encourages the State Party to continue the organization of awareness-raising activities for local population and mobilize their active participation in heritage conservation and management; 9. Requests the State Party to provide to the World Heritage Centre, by  1  \xc2\xa0February 2006 , a report on the progress made in the implementation of the recommendations contained in points 5, 7 and 8 above for examination by the Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006).