The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7A.24 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005), \n 3.  Noting  the updated information provided by the UNESCO mission in June 2006, \n 4.  Commends  the State Party for the co-ordinated efforts made, despite the difficult situation amidst political transformation, in improving the conservation of the property, progress made in redefining the property\'s boundaries, and recognizes the high quality of the participatory process for the establishment of the integrated management plan ; \n 5.  Notes  that the integrated management plan may require a further year for completion and adoption, given the commitment to the participatory process and the changing political situation; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to continue the establishment of an integrated conservation management system by: \n a) Completing and adopting the integrated management plan by  1 June 2007 ; \n b) Ensuring establishment of concrete conservation guidelines and their dissemination; \n c) Completing the categorized inventories in the seven Monument Zones in order to effectively link these with conservation guidelines; \n d) Implementing appropriate building regulations to control the transformation of heritage buildings within the World Heritage boundaries and in their buffer zones; \n e) Undertaking effective monitoring measures to assess the implementation of the management plan, by documenting and evaluating physical transformation of heritage buildings regularly; \n 7.  Encourages  the State Party to request Technical Assistance from the World Heritage Fund in order to implement such integrated conservation management system through the process of establishing the management plan, in close cooperation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2007  a progress report including the state of implementation of all the actions recommended as above, for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to invite a joint mission World Heritage Centre/ ICOMOS to the property in 2007 to assess whether the integrated conservation management system is in place; \n 10.  Decides  to consider the possible removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger at its 31st session in 2007, based on the examination of the progress report and the report of the World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS mission; \n 11.   Decides  to retain the Kathmandu Valley (Nepal) on the List of World Heritage in Danger .