The World Heritage Committee,  1. Having examined Document   WHC-05/29.COM/7B.Rev  ;  2. Recalling its Decisions  9 COM, 15 COM  and  20 COM  adopted at its 9th (UNESCO, 1985), 15th (Carthage, 1991) and 20th (Merida, 1996) sessions respectively;  3. Thanks the Director-General of UNESCO for immediately dispatching an international expert team to both the State Parties of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and Montenegro to review the proposed Buk Bijela dam project;  4. Notes with concern the results of the joint mission of UNESCO and IUCN to the property and the States Parties concerned and the detailed report by the mission team;  5. Requests the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina to fully respect the  Convention,\xc2\xa0 in particular Article 6.3, and not to take any action to threaten the values and integrity of a property located on the territory of another State Party to this  Convention ;  6. Urges both States Parties to fully implement all recommendations of the international expert mission;  7. Congratulates the Government of Serbia and Montenegro and the authorities of Montenegro for the immediate action taken to halt the hydropower project and requests that for any other potential project international standards for Environmental Impact Studies are applied and all measures are taken to minimize and, preferably, to eliminate any direct and indirect threats to the World Heritage property;  8. Encourages both States Parties to ratify other relevant international agreements, including the Aarhus Convention and the Danube Convention;  9. Urges both States Parties to collaborate in seeking alternative energy solutions and to fully comply with the provisions of the  Convention  and its  Operational   Guidelines  in protecting the Durmitor National Park and other protected areas in the region;  10. Further requests both States Parties to provide the World Heritage Centre with an updated report, including any new decisions relating to the dam project or other development projects and issues, as well as transboundary collaboration, by  1 February 2006  for examination by the Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006).