The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  32 COM 7B.88 , and  33 COM 7B.100  adopted at its 32nd (Quebec City, 2008) and 33rd (Seville, 2009) sessions respectively, \n 3.  Takes note  of the extensive and detailed observation, monitoring, analysis and research to develop an understanding of the complex   micro-biological and climatic dynamics of the Lascaux cave as a means to fully understand the causes of the surface decay; \n 4.  Welcomes  the fact that during 2009, there were almost no adverse changes to the surface of the cave, but  notes , however, that during October 2009 the limited presence of apparently new vermiculations was noted and mapped; \n 5.  Also notes  the progress made with respect to the development of a formal communication strategy to enable the conservation approaches to be fully and widely understood and  urges  the State Party to begin this programme with appropriate scientific advice; \n 6.  Further notes  the new management arrangements which separate scientific research and administrative functions; \n 7.  Acknowledges  the progress with the isolation of the hill, through proposals to move car parking and acquire land into State ownership; \n 8.  Reiterates its request  that the Protocol on Intervention that has been developed should be made public, as this could be used as a best practice example for other similar properties; \n 9.  Also reiterates  the need for the development of a formal communication strategy and the need for the Scientific Council to formulate the priorities adopted into a detailed action plan with a timeframe for the next three years; \n 10.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011 , a progress report on the state of conservation of the property with respect to the points above and on progress made in the creation of the above-mentioned action plan, for the examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.