The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7B.Add , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7B.3,  adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Expresses its sincerest condolences  to the family of the game reserve officer who was killed recently; \n 4.  Regrets  that the State Party did not submit a report on the state of conservation of the property and on the implementation of the recommendations of the 2007 mission; \n 5.  Expresses its utmost concern  about reports received by the World Heritage Centre and IUCN of uranium prospecting within the property and in the wildlife corridor; and  reiterates  its position that mining is incompatible with the World Heritage status of the property; \n 6.  Urges  the State Party to halt any prospecting or other mining developments within the property and  calls upon  the holders of any mining or exploration permit covering the property to respect international standards with respect to mining in World Heritage properties, as outlined in the International Council on Mining and Metals Position Statement on Mining and Protected Areas (2003) and not to mine or explore within World Heritage properties; \n 7.  Notes with concern  other potential developments within or in the vicinity of the property which might impact its Outstanding Universal Value and integrity, in particular planned dam developments and the proposed upgrading of the Tunduru- Songea road and  also urges  the State Party to submit information to the World Heritage Centre on the status of these projects and their potential impact on the property, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 8.  Further urges  the State Party to implement the recommendations of the 2007 monitoring mission; \n 9.  Requests  the State Party, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and IUCN, to develop a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, including the conditions of integrity, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 10.  Also requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / IUCN Reactive Monitoring mission to the property as foreseen in Decision  31 COM 7B.3 , to take place during the 2008/2009 dry season in order to assess the state of conservation of the property, in particular the effective management and impact of hunting activities on the Outstanding Universal Value and integrity of the property; \n 11.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2009,  a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property, including the status of wildlife populations, the levels of hunting and poaching, status of the planned and on going mining and development projects with potential impact on the property and on progress in the implementation of the recommendations of the 2007 monitoring mission, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009.