The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/11E ,  2.  Recalling  Decisions  28 COM 16, 7 EXT.COM 5E  and  29 COM 5  adopted at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004), 7th extraordinary session (UNESCO, 2004) and 29th session (Durban, 2005) respectively,   3.  Takes note  of the information provided by the World Heritage Centre on the progress made in the implementation of the above-mentioned Decisions for the follow-up to the Periodic Report in Latin America and the Caribbean;  4.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre, in collaboration with the Advisory Bodies, the UNESCO regional offices and the States Parties of the region, to further develop the Caribbean and the Latin American Action Plans into operational work plans and identify partners for their implementation;  5.  Invites  the Director-General of UNESCO to review operations and staffing in the UNESCO regional offices to ensure that services are provided in a coordinated manner with the World Heritage Centre to assist the States Parties in Latin America and the Caribbean in the implementation of the  World Heritage Convention  and the respective Action Plans;  6.  Calls upon  the States Parties, the World Heritage Centre and all the other stakeholders involved in the protection and conservation of natural and cultural heritage of the region to establish a fund raising strategy to provide the necessary financial and human resources required to implement the World Heritage Action Plans;  7.  Strongly encourages  the States Parties, other World Heritage partners and stakeholders in the region to cooperate actively and take the necessary actions to follow up on the implementation of the Action Plans for World Heritage in Latin America and the Caribbean in a concerted and concrete manner;  8.  Encourages  the States Parties of Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru to continue working together for the preparation of the trans-national nomination dossiers (Qhapaq \xc3\x91an - Main Andean Road) and  requests  the States Parties to submit a progress report by  1 February 2007  for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007 ;   9.  Calls upon  the donors to continue supporting the initiative and  thanks  the World Heritage Centre for technical support;   &nbsp;  10.  Requests  the Director of the World Heritage Centre to report at its   32nd session in 2008 on the implementation of the Caribbean and Latin American Action Plans.