The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7B , \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  29 COM 7B.84  and  31 COM 7B.100 , adopted at its 29th (Durban, 2005) and 31st (Christchurch, 2007) sessions respectively, \n 3.  Noting  the results of the February 2008 World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS mission to the property to examine the suitability of the proposed bridge at Verige and its impacts on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 4.  Notes with appreciation  the State Party\'s excellent conservation work and commends the State Party for cooperating with stakeholders in the conservation work; \n 5.  Urges  the State Party to consider protective mechanisms including a feasibility study for a buffer zone to better protect the property \n 6.  Invites  the State Party to consider re-nominating an enlarged area around the bay as a cultural landscape; \n 7.  Requests  the State Party to take into account the detailed recommendations of the joint mission and  also urges  the authorities to carry out a visual impact study of the Verige bridge project; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to carry out detailed environmental, cultural and visual impact studies in the event that other bridge or tunnel options are considered in the future; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to consider all other geographical and technical options which may replace the Verige Bridge project and would eliminate negative impacts on the Outstanding Universal Value ;   \n 10.  Encourages  the State Party to complete the management plan after having put in place adequate legal and protective measures, and appropriate resources; and  further requests  the State Party, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS, to develop a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value including the conditions of integrity and authenticity, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 11.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2009,  a copy of the visual impact study and a progress report on the approval and implementation of the management plan, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009.