The World Heritage Committee,   1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7B ,   2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7B.79 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005),  3.  Notes  the positive efforts made by the Ministry of Culture and the Municipality of Vilnius during the last two years to strengthen the legal and regulatory framework for heritage conservation, specifically the steps undertaken to address the concerns expressed by the Committee with regard to the high-rise buildings constructed and planned in the vicinity of the historic centre of Vilnius and their visual impact on the World Heritage property;     4.  Recalling  the provisions of the Vienna Memorandum on &quot;World Heritage and Contemporary Architecture, Managing the Historic Urban Landscape&quot; (2005) to protect historic urban landscapes,   5.  Acknowledges  the work undertaken to set up a plan of action for the revision of the buffer zone of the property;  6.  Notes with appreciation  the information provided on the follow-up to the &quot;Strategy for Wooden Architecture Heritage Preservation&quot; adopted in 2004;  7.  Notes with great concern  the continued lack of integration and co-ordination of initiatives in the heritage and other sectors at both State and local levels which hinder protection efforts for the World Heritage property;  8.  Urges  the State Party to initiate development of a fully integrated management plan, to govern and co-ordinate all decisions affecting the Old Town development and conservation, through participatory consultation processes over the next two years, and  requests  the State Party to explore how the Vilnius Old Town Renewal Agency (OTRA) may be given the authority and independence to develop and manage the implementation of such a plan under the shared supervision of the Ministry of Culture and the Office of the Mayor of Vilnius;  9.  Further requests  the State Party to provide to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2008  a   detailed report on the development of an integrated management plan for Vilnius Old Town as described in the recommendations above, including the redefinition of the buffer zone surrounding the historic core, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 32nd session in 2008.