The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  28 COM 15A.1  and  29 COM 7A.1 , adopted at its 28th (Suzhou, 2004) and 29th (Durban, 2005) sessions respectively, \n 3.  Takes note  of the interim report on the implementation of the emergency funding but  regrets  that the State Party has not submitted a progress report on the implementation of the recommendations of the 2001 UNESCO/IUCN mission to the property; \n 4.  Further regrets  that the requested monitoring mission has not yet taken place due to security concerns; \n 5.  Recommends  that the State Party, IUCN and UNESCO organize the mission and the planned stakeholder workshop in close cooperation with the ECOFAC programme as soon as the security situation allows; \n 6.  Requests  that the State Party, in cooperation with the European Union, take the necessary measures to start as soon as possible the fourth phase of the ECOFAC programme and within the framework of the programme put emphasis on the conservation and rehabilitation of the property; \n 7.  Further requests  the World Heritage Centre to continue the financial support from the World Heritage Fund for maintaining anti-poaching operations in the property until the start of the fourth phase of the ECOFAC programme; \n 8.  Requests  the Director General of UNESCO to facilitate a high level meeting between the State Party and the Government of Sudan and Chad, in close cooperation with the ECOFAC programme, to discuss the persistent problem of transborder poaching and resource exploitation in the region; \n 9.  Urges  the State Party to provide the World Heritage Centre with an updated report by  1 February 2007  on the state of conservation of the property and an evaluation of its Outstanding Universal Value, as well as a report on the progress with the implementation of the recommendations of the 2001 UNESCO/IUCN monitoring mission, for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007 ; \n 10.   Decides  to retain Manovo-Gounda St.Floris National Park (Central African Republic) on the List of World Heritage in Danger .