The World Heritage Committee, \n 1. Having examined Documents   WHC-05/29.COM/7B.Rev   and   WHC-    05/29.COM/7B.Add  , \n 2. Recalling its Decision  28 COM 15B.55  adopted at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004), \n 3. Expresses its appreciation to the State Party of China for the actions taken to improve the state of conservation of the property and for inviting a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to the property; \n 4. Requests the State Party to take into consideration the findings and recommendations of the joint World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS monitoring missions; \n 5. Recommends that the State Party reinforce the institutional coordination at the property by establishing at the level of the Tibet Autonomous Region, a Steering Committee to meet regularly to review the overall management of the Lhasa city and day-to-day management of the World Heritage property; \n 6. Recommends that the State Party consider a reappraisal and revision of the Overall Lhasa city Development Plan and the Conservation Plan 1999-2015, \n so as to further integrate heritage conservation into the overall planning process; \n 7. Requests the State Party to evaluate and possibly redefine the buffer zones pertaining to the Potala Palace, Jokhang Temple and Norbulingka and submit the detailed maps indicating the World Heritage boundary and protective buffer zones to the World Heritage Centre for the examination by the Committee at its 31st session (2007); \n 8. Encourages the State Party to develop new guidelines for the conservation and rehabilitation of historic traditional buildings and the protection of important views within the historic centre of Lhasa; \n 9. Requests the World Heritage Centre, the Advisory Bodies and other international partners to support exchange programmes and training activities on the conservation of traditional timber structures and on sustainable tourism management and planning for the staff of the responsible authorities; \n 10. Recommends that the State Party consider ways and means to develop: \n a) awareness-raising programmes on the restoration projects being undertaken at the property; \n b) interpretation of the World Heritage values of the property to visitors; \n 11. Further requests the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1   February 2007 , a state of conservation report on the progress made on the implementation of the above recommendations for examination by the Committee at its 31st session (2007).