The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Documents   WHC-05/29.COM/8B  ,   WHC-05/29.COM/8B.Add 2   and   WHC-05/29.COM/INF.8B.1  ,  2.  Inscribes  the  Historic Monuments of Macao  (China) on the World Heritage List on the basis of cultural criteria (ii), (iii), (iv) and (vi):   Criterion (ii):  The strategic location of Macao on the Chinese territory, and the special relationship established between the Chinese and Portuguese authorities favoured an important interchange of human values in the various fields of culture, sciences, technology, art and architecture over several centuries.   Criterion (iii):  Macao bears a unique testimony to the first and longestlasting encounter between the West and China. From the 16th to the 20th centuries, it was the focal point for traders and missionaries, and the different fields of learning. The impact of this encounter can be traced in the fusion of different cultures that characterise the historic core zone of Macao.   Criterion (iv):  Macao represents an outstanding example of an architectural ensemble that illustrates the development of the encounter between the Western and Chinese civilisations over some four and half centuries, represented in the historical route, with a series of urban spaces and architectural ensembles, that links the ancient Chinese port with the Portuguese city.   Criterion (vi):  Macao has been associated with the exchange of a variety of cultural, spiritual, scientific and technical influences between the Western and Chinese civilisations. These ideas directly motivated the introduction of crucial changes in China, ultimately ending the era of imperial feudal system and establishing the modern republic.  3.  Recommends  that the name of the nominated property be changed into: &quot;The Historic Centre of Macao&quot;.  4.  Also recommends  to make every effort to develop the management system so as to retain the existing structural and visual integrity, and to maintain the principal sightlines of the nominated area within its contemporary setting.