The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7B , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7B.56 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Notes  the State Party\'s commitment to revising the Cairo Financial Centre project so as to mitigate its impact on the urban landscape of the Citadel and  requests  that an alternative design be adopted and submitted, as soon as possible, to the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS for review ; \n 4.  Considers  that the following measures should be taken into account in the alternative design, as they constitute the minimum requirements in order to not jeopardize the Outstanding Universal Value of the property: \n a) the height of the complex should be further reduced and shaped to allow the building to rise progressively from the level of the Salah Salem highway to approximately 31 metres in the Eastern part of the site (at a distance of 500 metres from the Citadel wall). This would reduce the visual impact of the new buildings on the Citadel; \n b) the volume of the complex, now appearing as a huge mass of high rise buildings, should be broken up into several parts which would better balance the urban form and volumes of the Citadel; \n c) the building elevations, now projected as continuous homogeneous horizontal glass strips, should be revised in order to harmonise with the surroundings and minimise visual disturbance. \n 5.  Urges  the State Party to implement the main recommendations of the 2002 Symposium report, subsequently endorsed by the World Heritage Committee, in particular to prepare a comprehensive Urban Plan for the Conservation and Development of the Old City, whereby the conservation of historic buildings would be accompanied by appropriate development regulations; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to invite a high level mission headed by the Director of the World Heritage Centre to discuss these issues with the State Party\'s officials; \n 7.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2009 , a report on the implementation of the above recommendations, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009. \n &nbsp;