The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Documents WHC-10/34.COM/8B and WHC-10/34.COM/INF.8B1.Add, \n 2.  Does not approve  the proposed minor modification to the boundary of  Lumbini, the Birthplace of the Lord Buddha ,  Nepal ; \n 3.  Considers  that the proposal to enlarge the property to encompass the entire inner sacred garden and to enclose the outer sacred garden by a new buffer zone is to be supported in principle. However, in order to approve the considerable extension to the property, the Committee  considers  that more details are needed of the area to be included in terms of descriptions, plans, photographs, and more detailed maps are needed that comply with the requirements of the  Operational Guidelines  for the Implementation of the  World Heritage Convention . Furthermore details also need to be provided of the management and protection arrangements for the enlarged area; \n 4.  Requests  the State Party to reference some of the statements referred to at the time of inscription, such as the statements made at the time that various administration buildings were to be demolished; \n 5.  Considers also  that a Statement of Outstanding Universal Value needs to be provided by the State Party identifying how the Outstanding Universal Value is reflected by the considerably extended attributes of the enlarged area; \n 6.  Further   considers  that a mission will be needed to understand the rationale for the boundaries and the adequacy of the management and protection arrangements. And, as the request from the State Party refers to the development of a Management Plan,  recommends  to complete, approve and implement this Plan before the boundary is enlarged; \n 7.  Further considers  that the requirements outlined above mean that this request cannot be considered as a minor modification. The request needs to be re-formulated with the extra material suggested, and submitted as a major modification; \n 8.  Also   recommends  that the State Party submit a fuller nomination that will be considered as a significant modification and evaluated with a mission to the property.