The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7A.28 , adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005), \n 3.  Encourages  the State Party to continue to work in close collaboration with the World Heritage Centre, the Advisory Bodies, other stakeholders and the university networking for documentation through the UNESCO-Forum/Universities and Heritage, particularly in implementing activities outlined in the action plan; \n 4.  Notes with great concern  that little progress has been made towards implementing the recommendations of the Committee in 2005, and that in particular one critical decision reported during the 29th session (the transfer of management responsibility of the property to the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Azerbaijan) has not yet been implemented; \n 5.  Regrets  that no progress has been made with the elaboration of a comprehensive management plan to address conservation issues, urban development control and tourism management at the property; \n 6.  Recommends  the State Party to conduct comparative studies in terms of sustainable management of historic towns, and taking into account the Vienna Memorandum on "World Heritage and Contemporary Architecture, Managing the Historic Urban Landscape" (2005), with concerned Scientific Committees of the Advisory Bodies; \n 7.  Urges  the State Party to fully implement all previous decisions made by the Committee at its 28th and 29th sessions; \n 8.  Requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to the property to assess the actions taken by the State Party in the follow-up of previous Committee decisions and to elaborate an updated Action Plan in collaboration with the State Party; \n 9.  Requests  the State Party to provide the World Heritage Centre with an updated report by  1 February 2007 , on the state of conservation of the property, including all actions taken to implement the corrective measures, for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007. \n 10.   Decides  to retain the Walled City of Baku with the Shirvanshah\'s Palace and Maiden Tower (Azerbaijan) on the List of World Heritage in Danger .