The World Heritage Committee,  1. Having examined Document   WHC-05/29 COM/7B.Rev ,   2. Recalling its Decisions  27 COM 7B.102  and  28 COM 15B.106 ,  3. Takes note of the report of the second joint UNESCO/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission;  4. Commends the State Party of Venezuela for having committed itself at the highest level to address the issues of concern expressed in the 2002 mission report and in the subsequent decisions of the Committee, particularly through the creation of a Presidential Commission for the Protection of Coro, the Port of La Vela and their Areas of Influence;  5. Notes with satisfaction the inter-institutional nature of the Presidential Commission and its integrated vision on conservation and development;  6. Notes, however, that most actions are in the planning phase and that the results, scope and impact of the work of the Presidential Commission on the state of conservation of the World Heritage property can only be assessed at a later stage and that in the meantime, the property is not managed as one integrated whole and that there is no conservation plan;  7. Also notes that the gradual and considerable deterioration in the state of conservation, authenticity and integrity of the property was considerably aggravated by heavy rains that occurred between November 2004 and February 2005;  8. Expresses its deep concern about the state of conservation of the property and the lack of adequate management, planning and conservation mechanisms;  9. Urges the State Party to implement the recommendations issued of the joint UNESCO/ICOMOS missions of 2002 and 2005 and requests the State Party to develop a time-bound plan for their implementation;  10. Recalls Article 11.4 of the  Convention  and paragraph 179 of its  Operational   Guidelines  with regard to ascertained danger (including serious deteriorationof materials, structures and town-planning coherence) and potential danger (lack of conservation policy);  11.  Decides to inscribe Coro and its Port on the List of World Heritage in   Danger;   12. Adopts the following benchmarks for the future assessment of the effectiveness of measures to be taken by the State Party:  a) adoption and effective implementation of an Emergency Action Plan;  b) adoption and implementation of a comprehensive integrated management plan for the World Heritage property;  c) adoption and implementation of an effective management structure; and  d) marked improvement of the state of conservation of the property, both in terms of individual structures and the urban ensembles of Coro and La Vela. 13. Requests the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1   February 2006  a progress report including a time-bound plan for the implementation of the recommendations of the joint 2002 and 2005 UNESCO/ICOMOS missions and information on the progress made in their implementation, for review by the Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006).