The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7B.35 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Reminds  the State Party that the state of conservation report has to be submitted in one of the two working languages of the World Heritage Convention (French and English); \n 4.  Commends  the State Party for progress achieved on the implementation of some of the key corrective measures in the Action Plan produced in response to the Presidential Decree No. 270, on its continuing success in the area of control and eradication of introduced species and on the progress made in establishing and capitalizing the Galapagos Invasive Species Trust Fund, and  urges  the State Party to continue their implementation; \n 5.  Also urges  the State Party to undertake a rigorous and transparent process whereby the position of the Galapagos National Park Service Director is filled without delay and  underscores  the importance of ongoing institutional and political commitment to avoid further instability of this position ; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to include in future reports sufficient quantitative information to objectively assess the actual impacts in the field of the activities implemented towards addressing the conservation, social and development problems affecting the property and provide a definite timeframe for its completion; \n 7.  Notes with concern  that fundamental conservation issues and conflicts associated with the key threats that justified the inscription of this property in the List of World Heritage in Danger remain; \n 8.  Reiterates  its request to the State Party, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, to develop a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value including the conditions of integrity and a proposal for the Desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, based on the results of the requested baseline survey, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 9.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2009 , a comprehensive report on the state of conservation of the property, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009, with particular emphasis on the identified corrective measures in its 15 point Action Plan. The report should also address the concerns noted above, along with progress on the various actions tasked by the Presidential Decree No. 270; \n 10.   Decides  to retain the Gal&aacute;pagos Islands (Ecuador) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.