The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.125 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Notes  reparation works and monitoring activities of the key monuments of the National Conservation Area "Saint Sophia of Kyiv" as well as catacombs at the Lavra site; \n 4.  Also notes  that a complex rehabilitation programme for the "Varangian caves" is being prepared and  requests  the State Party to submit a copy to the World Heirtage Centre for review by the Advisory Bodies; \n 5.  Deeply regrets  that no moratorium has been put in place on a number of projects until an Urban Master Plan has considered appropriate uses for these sites, and  reiterates its requests  to the State Party to halt these projects in the light of their lack of conformity with regulations and their potential adverse impact on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property: \n a) Buildings on the territory around the Arsenal and the earth fortification following the international competition, \n b) A hotel complex around Saint Spas of Berestove Church, \n c) A hotel and residential complex on the land of the former military factories near the Arsenal, \n d) Buildings in the buffer zone of the Saint Sophia Cathedral, \n e) High-rise buildings that could compromise the panorama of the historical monastic landscape along the Dnieper; \n 6.  Urges  the State Party to adopt the Law "On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Protection of Cultural Heritage" and  also r  equests  the State Party to approve urgently a new city urban master plan, including a conservation master plan for the property and its buffer zone; \n 7.  Also urges  the State Party to provide three printed copies and an electronic version of the draft integrated management plan of the property for review by the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies; \n 8.  Also reiterates its request  to the State Party to consider extending the eastern boundary of the buffer zone of the Saint Sophia site to include Maidant Nezalejnosti Square as an important part of the urban structure, and to initiate a study on visual perspectives of the property in the wider context of the monastic riverside landscape; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to transmit to the World Heritage Centre, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines , a description of any intention to undertake or to authorize major restoration or new construction projects which may affect the Outstanding Universal Value of the property;    \n 10.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to the property to assess the overall state of conservation of the property and the implementation of the World Heritage Committee\'s decisions; \n 11.  Finally requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011 , a report on the state of conservation of the property and on the steps taken to implement the above recommendations, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.