The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/11D , \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  28 COM 16  adopted at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004),  7 EXT.COM 5E  adopted at its 7th extraordinary session (UNESCO, 2004) and  29 COM 5  adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005), \n 3.  Takes note  of the information provided by the World Heritage Centre on the progress made in the implementation of the above-mentioned Decisions for the follow-up to the Periodic Report in Latin America and the Caribbean; \n 4.  Notes with concern  the lack of progress with respect to the SIDS Programme as agreed at the 29th session of the Committee in Durban (2005); \n 5.  Thanks  the financial and technical collaboration provided by the Spanish Funds-in-Trust for the follow up of the Periodic Report exercise, and encourages the SFIT to continue its efforts towards the heritage conservation; \n 6.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre, in collaboration with the Advisory Bodies, the UNESCO regional offices and the States Parties of the region, to continue implementing the Action Plans concentrating on the priorities identified at the sub-regional workshops of 2006 and 2007, and to submit revised Action Plans covering the period 2011-2016, including a budget estimate, for the consideration of the Committee at its 34th Session in 2010; \n 7.  Invites  the Director-General of UNESCO to review operations and staffing in the UNESCO regional offices to ensure that services are provided in a coordinated manner with the World Heritage Centre, to assist the States Parties in Latin America and the Caribbean in the implementation of the  World Heritage Convention  and the respective Action Plans; \n 8.  Calls upon  the States Parties, the World Heritage Centre and all the other stakeholders involved in the protection and conservation of natural and cultural heritage of the region to establish a fund raising strategy to provide the necessary financial and human resources required to implement the World Heritage Action Plans; \n 9.  Also requests  the World Heritage Centre to provide a detailed report on the results and follow-up of the SIDS programme for the Committee\'s consideration at its 33rd session in 2009. \n 10.  Strongly encourages  the States Parties, other World Heritage partners and stakeholders in the region to cooperate actively and take the necessary actions to follow up on the implementation of the Action Plans for World Heritage in Latin America and the Caribbean in a concerted and concrete manner; \n 11.  Further requests  the World Heritage Centre to report to the Committee at its 34th session in 2010 on the implementation of the Caribbean and Latin American Action Plans.