The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7B.Add.2 , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7B.123 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Regrets  that the details of the proposed projects affecting historic buildings were not received by 1 October 2007 as had been requested by the World Heritage Committee by Decision  31 COM 7B.123 ; \n 4.  Requests  the State Party to give urgent consideration to the recommendations of the Joint World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS mission of November 2006 and their phased implementation, especially in relation to tackling the demolition issue and strengthening the work teams; \n 5.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2009 , a completed Disaster Preparedness Plan, together with a progress report on the advances made in the implementation of the Plan, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 6.  Invites  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Committee on a regular basis details of any new proposed projects potentially affecting historic buildings in the inscribed site, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines , for consideration by the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS; \n 7.  Further requests  the State Party to expand and complete the work of documentation in developing an inventory of the surviving historic buildings, and to submit a progress report on the work to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2009 , for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 8.  Requests moreover  the State Party to draw up and present to the World Heritage Committee a new Statement of Outstanding Universal Value justifying the inscription of the site, strengthening the connection between the city and the surrounding countryside, redefining the limits of the buffer zone and forming the basis of a revised master plan of Arequipa and other planning documents; \n 9.  Encourages  the State Party to make a request for technical assistance under the World Heritage Fund in order to develop a programme of community participation leading to a civil society action plan for conservation; \n 10.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2009,  a report on the progress made on the recommendations of the Reactive Monitoring mission for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009.