The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/10B ; \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 18A  adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005), \n 3.  Notes  the developing range of discussions on the nomination of serial transnational properties as a positive expression of international cooperation in line with the aims and objectives of the  World Heritage Convention ; \n 4.  Acknowledges  the need to enhance the guidance to States Parties, Advisory Bodies and the World Heritage Centre on the policies and procedures linked to the nomination and management of serial national and transnational properties; \n 5.  Requests  the Director of the World Heritage Centre to consult States Parties further on the issues raised in  Document WHC-08/32.COM/10B , particularly the need to revise paragraph 137 of the  Operational Guidelines  and the challenges and benefits of serial national and transnational nominations, through a Circular Letter; \n 6.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre, in cooperation with the Advisory Bodies, to organize an expert meeting to reflect on current and future practice and strategies for serial national and transnational nominations, taking account of the debate at the 32nd session and the input received through the Circular Letter. The meeting that takes place should address the following subjects, among others: \n a) revision of paragraph 137 of the  Operational Guidelines , which states that "the series as a whole - and not necessarily the individual parts of it - [must be] of Outstanding Universal Value" \n b) the risk of damaging the credibility of the World Heritage List by including properties on it, within serial national and transnational nominations, that would not merit inscription by themselves; \n c) the role of the World Heritage Centre in promoting and coordinating serial national and transnational nominations, and potential conflict of interest; \n d) clarification of the ultimate objectives of promoting serial national and transnational nominations as an approach under the  Convention ; \n e) strategies for funding the evaluation of complex serial national and transnational nominations. \n f) issues associated with losing the identity of individual World Heritage properties when they are subsumed by a larger, serial national or transnational nomination. \n 7.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre in consultation with the Advisory Bodies, to prepare an information document for consideration at the 33rd session of the Committee in 2009, providing a list of all existing serial properties on the World Heritage List and of all the known potential future serial nominations; \n 8.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies to propose amendments to the  Operational Guidelines  and more detailed guidelines, if necessary, for the nomination of serial national and transnational properties, for consideration at the 33rd session of the Committee in 2009. \n 9.  Takes note  that an expert workshop is proposed for November 2008 in Vilm (Germany), which will reflect on current and future practice and strategies for nomination and management of serial transnational natural World Heritage properties, and will update the Committee on progress with this discussion at its 33rd Session in 2009. \n 10.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre to seek extrabudgetary funding to support the expert meeting referred in paragraph 6 above.