The World Heritage Committee,   1.  Having examined  Documents  WHC-06/30.COM/8B, WHC-06/30.COM/INF.8B.1  and  WHC-06/30.COM/INF.8B.2 ,   2.  Refers  the nomination of the  Ecosystem and Relict Cultural Landscape of Lop\xc3\xa9-Okanda, Gabon,  under natural criterion back to the State Party in order to:   a) Allow the State Party to provide a full and thorough global comparative analysis that demonstrates the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, considering other protected areas in Gabon and the region, and in relation to detailed inventories of fauna and flora, as available;   b) Address the need for increased management capacity at the property to effectively meet the conditions of integrity and to support the implementation of the new Management Plan of Lop\xc3\xa9 National Park, placing priority on confirming staffing arrangements and long term financing commitments, to ensure the overall sustainable management of the property, including the relationship of its cultural and natural values;   3.  Expresses  its appreciation to the State Party for the work that has been carried out to improve the management plan for Lop\xc3\xa9 National Park;   4.  Invites  IUCN and ICOMOS to give clear guidance to the State Party on:   a) Preparation of the comparative analysis;   b) The possibility of a serial transnational nomination insofar as the natural aspect is concerned;   5.  Refers  the nomination of the  Ecosystem and Relict Cultural Landscape of Lop\xc3\xa9-Okanda, Gabon , under cultural criteria back to the State Party to provide:   a) A smaller area nominated for its cultural value based on a more detailed analysis of archaeological sites and petroglyphs and their relationship with each other and the river corridor;   b) A detailed list of cultural sites, detailing for archaeological sites their type and age, if known, and whether they have been excavated, and for rock art sites the number of images, if known, within each site or if not an approximate number to provide a record of what might be inscribed on the World Heritage List;   c) A detailed map of cultural sites, so that their precise location is known;   d) How archaeological expertise will be provided to take forward the actions in the management plan;   6.  Considers  that any nomination of cultural sites should encompass the River Ogooue valley and further tributaries if the significances of the archaeological sites can be justified;   7.  Suggests  that assistance is requested to research the appropriate value that adequately reflects what appears to be the richness of archaeological finds in the River Ogooue corridor of the area and define boundaries which reflect this value. As no details are given of the special qualities of Mount Iboundji, this should be excluded from the area considered for inscription;   8.  Invites  the State Party to submit an international assistance request to support the work required to provide the information requested above.