The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7B ,  2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7B.33,  adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005),  3.  Commends  the State Party for the completion and adoption of the new Master Plan for the property to address key issues of its conservation and management;  4.  Also commends  the State Party for its efforts to re-orient the priorities of the World Bank funded Vilcanota Valley Project to ensure its contribution to the development of a sustainable tourism programme for this area;  5.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, the plans for restoration and intervention at the major archaeological sites scheduled for 2006 before executing them, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines   of the Convention ;  6.  Also requests  the State Party to give priority to preparing a comprehensive sustainable financing strategy for the management of the property, so as to ensure the necessary resources for the implementation of the new Master Plan;  7.  Takes note  of the results of the International Workshop on Landslides at the Historical Sanctuary of Machu Picchu, in September 2005, which indicate reduced risk of landslides at the citadel, and  requests  that investigations continue and that training of local professionals be ensured in order to undertake systematic monitoring of the citadel as well as other vulnerable areas;   8.  Urges  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre a progress report on the preparation of the Risk Preparedness Plan by  30 October 2006 , given that fires and landslides take place every year, with disastrous consequences both in environmental and human terms;  9.  Requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/IUCN/ICOMOS mission to assess the state of conservation of the property and to work with the State Party on a strategy for the cooperation of all the parties involved in the implementation of the Master Plan;  10.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2007  a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and the progress made in the implementation of the Technical Plans embodied in the Master Plan, for examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007.