The World Heritage Committee ,   \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7A.Add,   \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7A.9 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Notes  the request of the State Party to postpone the monitoring mission requested at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007) to allow for more time to implement the corrective measures; \n 4.  Requests  the State Party to continue to implement the corrective measures adopted by the World Heritage Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006) and, in particular, to mobilize the necessary funding for and start the implementation of the management plan, which includes the strategy to address the grazing pressure and the alternative livelihoods project, as soon as it is finalized; \n 5.  Calls upon  the international community to financially support the implementation of the management plan and  encourages  the State Party to organize a donor conference with the assistance of the World Heritage Centre, the UNESCO Office in Addis Abeba and IUCN to identify potential donors and funding. The State Party might want to apply for assistance from the World Heritage Fund to organize this conference; \n 6.  Takes note  of the initial draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value and Desired state of conservation prepared by the State Party and  requests  the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies to assist the State Party in finalizing them; \n 7.  Also requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / IUCN mission to the property to assess its state of conservation and progress in the implementation of the corrective measures adopted by the World Heritage Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006) in view of a possible removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger; \n 8.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  1 February 2009 , a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and progress in the implementation of the corrective measures and the other recommendations of the 2006 monitoring mission, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 9.   Decides  to retain Simien National  Park (Ethiopia) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.