The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7A,   \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7A.11 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Notes  the conclusion of the mission that the Outstanding Universal Value of the property has been significantly impacted by the past civil strife and that recovery had only just started and was still in its initial stages; \n 4.  Considers  the presence of viable populations of all key species and a clear upward trend of these populations as key elements of the Desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger; \n 5.  Commends  the State Party, in particular the Bodoland Territorial Council and the management authority, for their efforts to implement the corrective measures adopted by the World Heritage Committee at its 29th session (Durban, 2005), but  notes  however that further work is still needed; \n 6.  Urges  the State Party to complete the implementation of the corrective measures and conservation activities, as follows: \n a) urgently conduct a baseline survey on recovery of wildlife populations and set up a full monitoring system which will allow monitoring and documenting the recovery of the flagship species; \n b) resolve the problem of fund release which did not progress significantly since the last mission; \n c) complete the work for the reconstruction and improvement of the park infrastructure; \n d) fill the remaining vacant positions in the park by recruiting the best elements of the volunteers, and/or others, into permanent staff positions; \n e) strengthen and consolidate park management operations, in particular the efforts for reducing illegal logging and wildlife poaching in Panbari Range; \n f) continue the efforts for reintroduction of the one-horned rhino and assess the need and feasibility for a restoration programme of the swamp deer; \n 7.  Welcomes  the initiative of the Bodoland Territorial Council to increase the protection status of the remaining high value reserve forests outside the property; \n 8.  Requests  the State Party to implement the other recommendations of the 2007 mission, in particular finalising the management plan, developing a capacity building programme for park field staff as well as local stakeholders and developing a regional vision on tourism taking into account the limited carrying capacity of the property; \n 9.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, to develop a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value including the conditions of integrity and a proposal for the Desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, based on the results of the requested baseline survey, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  1 February 2009,  a report on the state of conservation of the property, in particular on progress in the implementation of the corrective measures and other recommendations of the 2007 mission, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session in 2009; \n 11.   Decides  to retain Manas Wildlife Sanctuary (India) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.