The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-08/32.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7A.32 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Commends  the State Party for its effort to control poaching but  expresses its concern  about the ongoing threats to the integrity of the properties; \n 4.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to adopt a comprehensive approach to address the urgent threats to the properties in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) based on the corrective measures adopted by the World Heritage Committee as well as the recommendations from monitoring missions; \n 5.  Calls on  all States Parties to the  Convention  to use their bilateral contacts to raise international awareness and promote the implementation of the recommendations of the World Heritage Committee; \n 6.  Regrets  that the State Party has postponed the high level meeting between the authorities of DRC, the Chairperson of the World Heritage Committee, the Director-General of UNESCO, the President of IUCN, donors and other interested parties to identify strategies to address the on-going deterioration of the state of conservation of the five properties from DRC inscribed on the List of World Heritage in Danger before the 32nd session of the World Heritage Committee, and  urges the State Party to set a date for this meeting as soon as possible, in consultation with the Office of the Director-General of UNESCO, and the Chairperson of the World Heritage Committee and the office of the President of IUCN; \n 7.  Welcomes  the commitment of the United Nations Foundation, the African World Heritage Fund, and the States Parties of Italy and Belgium in supporting the activities for restoring the Outstanding Universal Value of the five properties; \n 8.  Notes with satisfaction  the progress made in developing a trust fund for the DRC properties; \n 9.   Decides  to continue to apply the Reinforced Monitoring mechanism to the five properties in the Democratic Republic of the Congo .