The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-06/30.COM/7A.Add.Rev,   2.  Recalling  Decision  29 COM 7A.31  adopted at its 29th session (Durban, 2005),  3.  Further recalling  32 C/Resolution 39 of the General Conference of UNESCO and Decision 172EX.18 of the Executive Board of UNESCO, as well as the provisions of the four Geneva Conventions (1949), the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict (1954) and the related Protocols, and the Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage (1972), the inclusion of the Old City of Jerusalem in the World Heritage List and in the List of World Heritage in Danger, and the recommendations, resolutions and decisions of UNESCO on the protection of cultural heritage,  4.  Affirming  that nothing, in the present decision, which aims at the safeguarding of the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem, shall in any way affect the relevant United Nations resolutions and decisions, in particular the relevant Security Council resolutions on the legal status of Jerusalem,  5.  Reiterates its concern  as to the obstacles and practices, such as archaeological excavations or new constructions, which could alter the outstanding universal value of the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem, including its urban and social fabric as well as its visual integrity;  6.  Asks  the Israeli authorities to provide to the World Heritage Centre all relevant information concerning the new buildings planned in and around the Western Wall Plaza, including the plans for the reconstruction of the access leading to the al-Haram ash-Shar\xc3\xaef;  7.  Invites  all authorities and institutions to cooperate constructively for the conservation of the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem and, in particular, the Israeli authorities to facilitate access of materials and technical staff for the restoration of monuments and housing in the Old City, in particular in the al-Haram ash-Shar\xc3\xaef;  8.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre to report on the state of conservation and on the progress in the preparation and implementation of the Action Plan for the safeguarding of the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem, together with the necessary achievable benchmarks, for the examination by the Committee at its 31st session in 2007;  9.  Further requests  the concerned parties to collaborate with the World Heritage Centre in this endeavour and invites all the States Parties to contribute to its implementation through extra-budgetary funding;  10.  Congratulates  the Director-General of UNESCO for his commitment in pursuing a comprehensive initiative for the safeguarding of the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem;  11.   Decides  to retain the Old City of Jerusalem on the List of World Heritage in Danger .