The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-10/34.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Strongly regrets  that the State Party has neither provided detailed information on the management structure, legal and institutional mechanisms nor on the management plan of the property; \n 3.  Requests  the State Party to develop and approve the overall management system in order to ensure that it will give priority to maintaining the Outstanding Universal Value for which the property was inscribed on the World Heritage List in all conservation, promotion and development actions which might affect the property; \n 4.  Expresses concern  at the extensive restoration and reconstruction projects carried out since inscription without prior notification to, or review by, the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies; \n 5.  Also requests  the State Party to inform the World Heritage Centre of any construction, reconstruction, restoration projects and activities which may threaten the Outstanding Universal Value, integrity and authenticity of a property inscribed on the World Heritage List in conformity with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines . \n 6.  Invites  the State Party to establish a special board, including all stakeholders concerned, as well as representatives of the Patriarchate of Moscow and All-Russia, in order to develop appropriate legal measures, specific conservation, restoration and use rules and a joint management system for the World Heritage religious properties in the Russian Federation; \n 7.  Further requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to the property, to assist the State Party in following-up on progress made in responding to the above requests, and in defining measures in order to prevent any activities which could represent potential threat to the Outstanding Universal Value, integrity and authenticity of the property; \n 8.  Finally requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011,  a report on the state of conservation of the property, including information on the management structure, legal and institutional mechanisms and information or studies related to ongoing developments at the property, as well as three copies of the management plan of the property, and a progress report on the implementation of the above mentioned requests, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.