The World Heritage Committee,  1. Having examined Document   WHC-05/29.COM/7B.Rev  ,  2. Recalling its Decision  28 COM 15B.95 , adopted at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004),  3. Thanks the State Party of the Russian Federation for the progress report on the organisation of the restoration works of the Church of the Transfiguration and the continuing efforts to improve the state of conservation of the property,  4. Regrets that the State Party did not provide a detailed report, as requested by the World Heritage Committee, on the progress of the actual conservation works, detailed budget and funding sources as well as the overall state of conservation of the property;  5. Notes with concern the continuing uncertainty of funding for the restoration works and the overall inconsistent information on the management of the property;  6. Urges the State Party to collaborate closely with the Advisory Bodies and the World Heritage Centre regarding the development of the conservation works and the management of the property;  7. Considers that in view of the lack of information on the state of conservation of the property and lack of follow-up to the recommendation of the 2002 Workshop and the recommendation of the Committee, the threats to the property are considerable;  8. Requests the State Party to submit reports by  1 February 2006  to the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006), containing the following:  a) a detailed work plan with precise budget;  b) a comprehensive report on the steps of the conservation works including information on the impact of interventions on the conservation works;  c) information on the management measures for the property;  d) an update on the status and determination of the buffer zone;  e) information on risk preparedness measures in place for the entire property; and  f) clarification on the management of tourism in the region in relation to the values of the inscribed property;  9. Decides to consider, on the basis of this report, whether or not the property should be inscribed on the List of World Heritage in Danger.