The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7B.41 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Notes  the State Party\'s progress in implementing the reactive monitoring mission\'s recommendations of 2009 relating to management, visitor management and site presentation, and its efforts to monitor and mitigate the negative impacts of the port expansion on the property; \n 4.  Also notes  the efforts made to strengthen monitoring of archaeological remains and the recovery of what appears to be a sunken ship and related materials; \n 5.  Urges  the State Party to monitor the quality of dredged material throughout all phases of the port expansion, and to include testing for organic pollutants; \n 6.  Also urges  the State Party to immediately inform the World Heritage Centre of any unexpected or adverse impacts that occur during the port expansion works, and  requests  the State Party to continue undertaking and reporting on appropriate mitigation and monitoring measures during and after the works on the port in order to avoid any negative impacts on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 7.  Further notes  that a high number of recreational boats are continuing to cause direct and cumulative negative impacts on the Posidonia prairies within and adjacent to the property, and  further urges  the State Party to develop and implement an effective control mechanism to mitigate the impacts from recreational boats on the property\'s Outstanding Universal Value, based on a careful assessment of the its capacity; \n 8.  Urges furthermore  the State Party to upgrade and improve the waste water treatment facilities of Ibiza and Platja d\'en Bossa, in order to eliminate the discharge of insufficiently treated waste water into the sea; \n 9.  Welcomes  the State Party\'s intention to consider a possible future extension of the property, and  encourages  the State Party to consider the inclusion of the Archipelago de Cabrera National Park in such an extension, in addition to the areas identified by the 2009 reactive monitoring mission; \n 10.  Reiterates its request  that the State Party develop and implement an integrated monitoring system for the property\'s natural values, in order to monitor threats to its Outstanding Universal Value, including invasive species and discharge of insufficiently treated waste water; \n 11.  Also requests  the State Party in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the Operational Guidelines to provide detailed information about any facilities or structures proposed (such as the future Ferry Terminal) which could have negative impacts on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property;    \n 12.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2015 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, including the development of the state of conservation of the property\'s Posidonia prairies since its inscription, as well as a copy of the Management Plan upon its finalization, for review by the Advisory Bodies.