The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7A.11 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Expresses its serious concern  about reports that poaching pressure is increasing in the property and is further eroding its Outstanding Universal Value; \n 4.  Regrets  that it has not been possible for the State Party to implement some of the corrective measures adopted by the World Heritage Committee at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007) within the agreed timeframe; \n 5.  Also regrets  that the State Party did not provide information on progress in addressing threats from illegal logging, spread of invasive species and associated drying of marshes, planned construction of a dam on the Gambia river, the planned transnational Tambacounda highway as well as its efforts to establish a public private partnership for the implementation of the corrected measures, as requested by the World Heritage Committee at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008); \n 6.  Urges  the State Party to increase efforts to urgently implement the corrective measures adopted by the World Heritage Committee at its 31st session as well as the other recommendations of the 2007 joint World Heritage Centre / IUCN mission to avoid the potential imminent loss of the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 7.  Calls upon  the State Party as well as the international donor community to increase their support for the management of the property and in particular the implementation of the corrective measures; \n 8.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and Advisory Bodies, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value and a proposal for the desired state of conservation for removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 9.  Requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / IUCN reactive monitoring mission to review the state of conservation of the property and to review the implementation of the corrective measures and timeframe; \n 10.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010,  a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and on the implementation of the corrective measures and all other recommendations of the World Heritage Committee above mentioned in Paragraphs 5 and 6, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 11.   Decides  to retain Niokolo-Koba National Park (Senegal) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.