The World Heritage Committee,   1.  Having examined  Documents WHC-07/31.COM/8B and WHC-07/31.COM/INF.8B.1,  2.  Inscribes   Gamzigrad-Romuliana, the Palace of Galerius, Serbia , on the World Heritage List on the basis of  criteria (iii)  and  (iv);   3.  Adopts  the following Statement of Outstanding Universal Value:  Gamzigrad-Romuliana is a Late Roman palace and memorial complex built in the late 3rd and early 4th centuries, commissioned by the Emperor Galerius Maximianus. The strong fortifications of the palace are an allusion to the fact that the Tetrarchy Emperors were all senior military leaders. The spatial and visual relationships between the palace and the memorial complex, where the mausoleums of the Emperor and his mother Romula are located, are unique.   Criterion (iii) : The fortifications, the palace, and the memorial complex are a unique testimony of the Roman construction tradition pervaded by the ideological programme of the Second Tetrachy and Galerius himself as their builder.   Criterion (iv) : The group of buildings comprising the architectural complex of the Emperor Galerius is unique in that it intertwines the ceremonial and the memorial programme. The relation between two spatial ensembles is stressed by placing the Tetrapylon on the crossroads between the worldly fortification with the palace and the other-worldly mausoleums and consecration monuments.  The integrity and authenticity of Gamzigrad-Romuliana are clearly demonstrated: relatively few excavations have been carried out to date and there has been no attempt to reconstruct the much degraded remains. There are no plans for reconstruction beyond what is needed for conservation and can be substantiated through research, as these would diminish the level of authenticity.   The property is protected by: the Decision by the Institute for the Preservation and Scientific Examination of the Cultural Goods of the PR of Serbia (No 407/48, 19 March 1948); the Decision on the Identification of Immovable Cultural Goods of Outstanding and of Great Importance (Official Gazette 14/79); the Cultural Properties Law (The Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia, No 71/94). A buffer zone has been established. The conservation of the remains is satisfactory. The property is managed at the level of the Republic of Serbia by the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments of Serbia.   4.  Requests  that the State Party further develop its management system and allocate sufficient resources to its implementation.  5.  Recommends  that the State Party immediately give consideration to the following:  \xc2\xa0\xc2\xa0\xc2\xa0\xc2\xa0 a) Give priority to the analysis of the data from previous excavations and conduct any new investigations using non-destructive means and targeted surgical incisions.  \xc2\xa0\xc2\xa0\xc2\xa0\xc2\xa0 b) Adopt measures to avoid any negative impact of increased visitor numbers on the property.  6.  Recommends  the State Party to consider the possibility of linking this property in a serial nomination with the Historical Complex of Split with the Palace of Diocletian and Villa Romana del Casale.  \xc2\xa0