The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7B , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.21 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Regrets  that the State Party of the Republic  of Moldova did not provide a report as requested by the World Heritage Committee at its 30th and 32nd sessions; \n 4.  Welcomes  the progress made with exchange of information and cooperation between the States Parties of Romania and Ukraine concerning the Danube Delta ecosystem; \n 5.  Encourages  the harmonization and coordination of all European Union projects in the River Basin of the Danube and  requests  that this be taken into account in the revision and update of the management plan for the World Heritage property as well as in the consideration of any potential impacts on its Outstanding Universal Value; \n 6.  Notes  the recommendations of the 2008 Ramsar mission to the Danube Delta region and the relevance of the recommendations of this mission to the maintenance of the integrity and protection of the property, and  also requests  the States Parties to collaborate as recommended by the Ramsar Secretariat; \n 7.  Also notes  that the State Party of Romania has already implemented recommendations and agreed actions of the Odessa Conference of 2006, and  encourages  the States Parties of Romania and Ukraine to invite the authorities of the Republic of Moldova to participate in this cooperation; \n 8.  Further notes  that the State Party of Romania adopted Rules for navigation in the Danube Delta and Guidelines on architecture and building activities in the Danube Delta and  but regrets  that a tourism master plan has not been submitted as requested; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party of Romania to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011,  an updated report on the state of conservation of the property, including on the status and impacts of the relevant development projects affecting the Delta on its Outstanding Universal Value, and especially those related to dredging and navigation as well as a copy of the River Basin management plan for the Danube Delta and the tourism plan for the property, for review by IUCN and the World Heritage Centre.