The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7A.21 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Recognizes  the continued progress that has been made in generating support for the conservation of the property in particular from the German International Cooperation (GIZ), and the Social Fund for Development (SFD) and  encourages  the State Party to continue to give the optimum support to the regeneration and conservation of Zabid; \n 4.  Notes  the progress with finalizing and implementing the Conservation Plan and the development of a Management Plan as well as the progress with conservation work and street paving; \n 5.  Requests  the State Party to implement fully the recommendations of the 2011 World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS mission; \n 6.  Adopts  the following Desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the World Heritage List in Danger: \n a) Finalisation of the Management Plan and 2 years effective implementation, \n b) 2 years effective implementation of the Conservation Plan, encompassing the legal rules and technical regulations for the preservation of the cultural heritage and landscape of the property and its setting, \n c) Adoption of the new Conservation Law, \n d) Adoption of regulations for new construction and infrastructure within the property and its buffer zone, \n e) Improvement in brick manufacturing technology through a programme of consultation, research and experimentation, \n f) State of conservation of traditional buildings and their architectural features stabilised and necessary maintenance implemented, \n g) Effective regulations, accepted by the community, put in place to halt violations, \n h) Protection and enhancement of public spaces and of green private and public areas, \n i) Professional staff and contractors having adequate capacities to carry out their work, \n j) Risk management strategy in place; \n 7.  Approves  the extension timeframe for the implementation of the corrective measures as set out in the mission report until July 2014; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2012 ,   a progress report on the above for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 9.   Decides    to retain the Historic Town of Zabid (Yemen) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.