The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.20 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Notes  that the State Party is developing a plan for the sustainable use of the Cua Van Cultural Centre, and  requests  the State Party to submit this plan to the World Heritage Centre; \n 4.  Also notes  the efforts made by the State Party to address the multiple development and population pressures affecting the property, but  remains concerned  that these continue to negatively affect its Outstanding Universal Value; \n 5.  Further notes  that without an integrated planning approach, it will be extremely difficult to successfully address these multiple pressures over the long-term, and therefore  also requests  the State Party to accelerate the effective implementation of the 2020 Master Plan for the property; \n 6.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to undertake a Management Effectiveness Evaluation for the property, in line with the \'Enhancing our Heritage\' tool kit, in order to inform the management of the multiple pressures affecting the property\'s Outstanding Universal Value, including tourism, urban and industrial development, fishing and aquaculture among others, and to take measures to implement the management recommendations resulting from this assessment, and  reiterates its invitation  to the State Party to consider requesting International Assistance from the World Heritage Fund to support this evaluation; \n 7.  Also reiterates its request  that the State Party provide Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) on the impacts of the landfill and other major developments taking place outside and within the boundaries of the property on its Outstanding Universal Value; \n 8.  Encourages  the State Party to consider options for better management of visitors whilst enhancing visitor\'s quality experience, including options to disperse visitors throughout the property in order to reduce visitor pressure, and to improve signage and presentation of the property\'s Outstanding Universal Value at key visitor locations; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, including an update on the outcome of the Management Effectiveness Evaluation for the property and copies of EIAs on the impacts of the landfill and other major developments taking place outside and within the boundaries of the property on its Outstanding Universal Value, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013.