The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Documents WHC-11/35.COM/8B and WHC-11/35.COM/INF.8B1, \n 2.  Inscribes  the  Residence of   Bukovinian   and Dalmatian Metropolitans ,  Ukraine , on the World Heritage List on the basis of  criteria   (ii), (iii)  and  (iv) : \n 3.  Takes note  of the following provisional Statement of Outstanding Universal Value: \n  &nbsp;  \n  Brief synthesis  \n Situated within the boundaries of the town of Chernivtsi, at the extreme end of the river promontory, named mount Dominic, the architectural ensemble includes three palaces, a \'cour d\'honneur\' and a park. The Residence, with a dramatic fusion of architectural references, is an outstanding example of 19th century historicist architectural identity of the Orthodox Church within the Austro-Hungarian Empire during a period of religious and cultural toleration. In the 19 th  century, historicist architecture could convey messages about its purpose and the Residence of Bukovinian and Dalmatian Metropolitans does this par excellence. \n  Criterion (ii):  Chernivtsi architectural ensemble of the Residence of the Bukovinian and Dalmatian Metropolitans embodies social, economical and cultural influences of the development of architecture and urban planning since antique times, the Middle Ages, absolutism and the Gruender period. Especially, the complex represents a version of 19 th  century historicist architecture and planning. \n  Criterion (iii):  The Residence bears an exceptional testimony of cultural tradition of Orthodox Church which is signified by the use of Byzantine forms for the domed cruciform churches, while the decorative patterns, incorporated in the tiled roofs of the complex signify the folk culture of the people. The prosperous Bukovinian Metropolitanate with episcopacies on territories of Southern and Central Europe stopped its existence in 1940. The name "Bukovina", as well as Bukovinian Orthodox Metropolitanate which borders reached the city of Trieste on Adriatic Sea have disappeared from cultural and geographical maps and exist only in written sources of historical researches. \n  Criterion (iv):  The ensemble of the Residence, combining elements of national, Byzantine, Gothic and Baroque architecture, illustrates a significant stage in human history, expressing cultural identity of the Orthodox Church on the territory of Austro-Hungarian Empire, considerable and numerous historic events in the region of Bukovina that influenced the course of world history and culture. This message is conveyed through a historicist architectural design and planning by an outstanding architect of the European architectural school in the 19th century.&nbsp; The combination of purposes and architectural, as well as decorative quality and opulence of the property can be considered unique. \n  Integrity   \n The integrity of the property is expressed adequately. The ensemble and the adjacent park form the cultural value of the property and contain, within its boundary, all sufficient elements to concur to express the Outstanding Universal Value. The conditions of integrity and all of the components are adequately preserved. \n  Authenticity  \n The conditions of authenticity are generally adequate. The change of function of the ensemble, initially being the Residence of Metropolitans and becoming a university did not affect its authenticity. Minor interior restoration works were carried out with respect to property\'s attributes. \n  Protection and management requirements  \n The Residence of the Bukovinian and Dalmatian Metropolitans was declared a National Park in 1945. The property on its 8th ha site was transferred to Yuriy Fedkovich Chernivtsi National University under the Ministry of Education of Ukraine in 1955.&nbsp; The nominated property is protected at both regional and national level by regulations and laws. A protection contract is signed annually with the Chernivtsi City Council, covering the responsibilities of the University to the property in terms of use and maintenance. The State funding "Comprehensive program on Preservation of historical architecture in Chernivtsi for 2009-2015" provides a basis for the systematic conservation and management of the property and for implementing protection measures in compliance with national standards for the protection of World Heritage sites. The General Development Plan for Chernivtsi gives main outlines for proper management of the property with special attention to the growth of tourist infrastructure as one of the major branches of the municipal economy. A separate Tourism management plan is to be developed to tackle the long-term consequences of the tourism pressure. \n &nbsp; \n 4.  Recommends  the State Party to give consideration to: \n a) Extending the Management Plan to include a Tourism Management Plan, \n b) Developing a conservation plan for the gardens and park behind the Residence, \n c) Submitting to the World Heritage Centre the details of interior restoration works within the property.