The Bureau recalled that Djoudj Sanctuary was inscribed on the List of World Heritage in Danger in 1984 due to problems caused by the construction of downstream dams that interfered with the water regime of this wetland. Several interventions had been made to maintain the water balance in the wetland, some supported by financial contributions from the World Heritage Fund. Due to improvements in the state of conservation of the site, it was removed from the List of World Heritage in Danger in 1988. \n The Bureau noted that the UNESCO Office in Dakar, Senegal, had informed the Centre of the invasion of a species of Hyacinth in the waters of Djoudj Sanctuary, and that an urgent meeting of the &laquo;Comite national de crise&raquo; was held on 19 April 2000 at the Ministry of Environment.&nbsp; Discussions at this meeting focused on the advantages of the mechanical and biological options (introduction of insects) for controlling the spread of the invasive species.&nbsp; The meeting decided to set up two separate commissions to study the pros and the cons of the two options. The two commissions were due to meet during 26 - 27 April 2000. UNESCO and IUCN Offices in Dakar are co-operating with the representatives of the Government of the Netherlands in Senegal who expressed interest in mitigating the threat posed by the invasion by the water hyacinth once the Government of Senegal has made its choice between the two options. The Bureau further noted that the Centre is in communication with the Ramsar Secretariat on this matter since Djoudj is also a Ramsar site. The Director of the Senegalese National Parks, via his letter of 25 April 2000, has requested that Djoudj be again included in the List of World Heritage in Danger, in view of the imminent danger of the invasion of the water hyacinth facing the site.&nbsp; IUCN&nbsp; informed the Bureau that it is willing to support the action, drawing on its Invasive Species Specialist Group. \n The Bureau requested the Centre and IUCN to co-operate with the State Party to submit a detailed report on the threat posed by the water hyacinth invasion of the Djoudj Lake. The report should include an analysis of the severity of the threat posed, remedial measures planned to mitigate impacts, a financing plan for implementing the remedial measures and the donor countries providing assistance to the Senegalese Government to protect the site. The report, to be submitted by the 15 September 2000,&nbsp; should also recommend whether or not the Committee needs to consider including this site in the List of World Heritage in Danger.&nbsp;