The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.14 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Welcomes  the State Party\'s initiatives to increase the involvement of local communities in the management of the property, and  commends  the State Party for its efforts to ensure the long-term conservation of satellite wetlands, in line with the recommendations of the 2008 reactive monitoring mission; \n 4.  Notes with serious concern  that the completion of the Govardhan Drain and the Dholpur - Bharatpur drinking water project has been further delayed since its 33rd session (Seville, 2009),  requests  the State Party to ensure the completion of these projects urgently, and  urges  the State Party to continue the release of water from the Panchana dam to the property annually; \n 5.  Notes  that failure to urgently restore adequate water supply to the property could adversely affect the wetland bird populations for which the property was inscribed on the World Heritage List and could negatively impact on the Outstanding Universal Value and may meets the requirements for inscription on the List of World Heritage in Danger, in accordance with Paragraph 180 (a) (i) of the Operational Guidelines; \n 6.  Also requests  the State Party to provide accurate time series data on the property\'s bird populations since its inscription on the List of World Heritage, including a description of the survey methodologies used, in order to assess the status and trend of these populations; \n 7.  Also urges  the State Party to develop and implement a detailed ecological monitoring programme to monitor the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, in order to ensure that the reinstatement of the property\'s water supply results in the restoration of its Outstanding Universal Value; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to provide the World Heritage Centre with three printed and one electronic copy of the draft revised management plan or management system; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, including a report on progress achieved in restoring adequate water supply to the property, as well as a detailed ecological monitoring report, for examination by the Committee at its 36th session in 2012,  with a view to considering, in the case of confirmation of the ascertained or potential danger to Outstanding Universal Value, the possible inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger.