The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7A.28  adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes  the progress made in implementing the Priority Interventions Programme; \n 4.  Requests  the State Party to finalize the assessment phase and to begin interventions on buildings at risk and to secure the required resources for effective implementation, to revise the management plan and to finalise the definition of regulatory measures for the buffer zone; \n 5.  Invites  the State Party to consider another request for International Assistance to invite experts who could assist in developing a concept for interventions, especially the most urgent structural consolidation and conservation measures required and provide training to the conservation team on site; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to submit the intervention proposals to the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS for evaluation prior to implementation; \n 7.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, for examination by the World Heritage Committee; \n 8.  Also reiterates its request  to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, a proposal for the desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to submit the required documentation for boundary modifications, including appropriate cartography, for approval by the World Heritage Committee; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS/ICCROM monitoring mission to the property to assess progress and to support the State Party in continuing to develop approaches to ensure the stability and long-term conservation of the industrial buildings, and to review the draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value ; \n 11.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010,  a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and on the progress made in the implementation of the above recommendations, for the examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 12.   Decides  to retain the Humberstone and Santa Laura Saltpeter Works (Chile) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.