The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35 COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7B.26 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Takes note  of the conclusion of the 2011 joint World Heritage Centre/IUCN reactive monitoring mission that the Outstanding Universal Value for which the property has been inscribed is still present, but could be threatened by a number of proposed development projects, including the proposed additional dredging of the Lower Guadalquivir River, the over-abstraction of the Do&ntilde;ana Aquifer, the proposed Balboa oil pipeline from Huelva to Extremadura, and the cumulative effects of infrastructure projects outside the World Heritage property; \n 4.  Encourages  the State Party to update all risk preparedness and management plans in view of the expansion project of La R&aacute;bida refinery and to establish direct communication lines in case of emergencies with the specialized unit of La R&aacute;bida refinery dealing with rapid response to emergency situations; \n 5.  Considers  that the proposed Balboa pipeline could have both direct and indirect impacts on the property\'s Outstanding Universal Value and  urges  the State Party to refrain from choosing any route for the Balboa pipeline which could impact on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to ensure the implementation of the Special Management Plan of the Irrigation Zones (located to the North of the Forest Crown of Do&ntilde;ana) and to consider the following points: \n a) Every effort is made to produce a consensus-based plan, with the full participation of all the stakeholders, but without diluting the essential objectives of said Plan regarding the "protection of the exceptional natural values of Do&ntilde;ana and the rational use of water", \n b) The Government Council of the Junta de Andaluc&iacute;a approve the Plan before 31 December 2011, and commence implementation by 1 January 2012 at the latest; \n 7.  Also urges  the State Party to halt any works related to the project "Actions to improve the maritime access to the Port of Seville" of 1999, and not to authorise the dredging of the Guadalquivir River as proposed in this plan, as this could have a critical impact on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to fully and effectively implement all other recommendations of the 2011 joint World Heritage Centre/IUCN reactive monitoring mission and the Ramsar advisory mission, in order to address the key conservation and management issues and challenges facing the property; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013  a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property, in particular on the above mentioned issues and on progress achieved in the implementation of the recommendations from the reactive monitoring mission, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013.