The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  32 COM 7B.88, 33 COM 7B.100  and  34 COM 7B.85  adopted at its 32nd (Quebec City, 2008), 33rd (Seville, 2009) and 34th (Brasilia, 2010) sessions respectively,   \n 3.  Takes note  of the extensive and detailed observation, monitoring, analysis and research being undertaken to develop an understanding of the complex micro-biological and climatic dynamics of the Lascaux cave as a means to fully understand the causes of the surface decay; \n 4.  Notes  the need for more research into the recently identified specific microbes present in the cave and the need for surrogate caves within which to undertake research; \n 5.  Also notes  that during 2010 the conditions of the cave are reported by the State Party to be relatively stable with most adverse effects being in regression; \n 6.  Welcomes  the detailed action plans of the four sub-groups established by the Scientific Council; \n 7.  Notes with satisfaction  the intention of the Scientific Council to establish a new web-site for Lascaux in 2011; \n 8.  Considers  that there is still a need for more information to be made public concerning the wide range of work, in order to allay fears in the wider community, and  urges  the State Party to present a Communication Strategy to ensure the greatest possible transparency for its approaches and actions; \n 9.  Acknowledges  the progress with the isolation of the hill, through proposals to move car parking and acquire land into State ownership,  further notes  the scoping exercise on a possible facsimile cave and  requests  the State Party to ensure that the World Heritage Committee is kept fully informed about all stages in this tourism project, in line with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines , before any commitments are made; \n 10.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013 , a progress report on the state of conservation of the property and on the implementation of the above, and particularly in connection with tourist development plans, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013.