The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having noted  the information provided by the World Heritage Centre further to its mission to the property,;  2.  Commends  the State Party, particularly the Karnataka State Government, for the tangible action taken to implement the corrective measures to protect the World Heritage property;  3.  Congratulates  the State Party for the decision to postpone the completion of the vehicular bridge until the by-pass road is constructed and to consider the vehicular bridge to be temporary, pending the identification of a long-term solution within the Hampi management plan;  4.  Stresses  the importance of the Karnataka State Government adopting provisional regulations for new construction and renovation in the World Heritage protected area to halt uncontrolled urbanization;   5.  Recommends  to the State Party, the establishment of a technical unit to support the Hampi World Heritage Management Authority and the concerned national authorities, to ensure building control and community advisory service for conservation;  6.  Encourages  the State Party to mobilize social housing, agricultural support and cottage craft industry subsidies and technical expertise in the elaboration of, and financial resources for, the Hampi management plan, to ensure that conservation and development needs of the local population, especially the poor, are addressed;  7.  Invites  the State Party to continue consulting UNESCO and the Advisory Bodies in the elaboration of the management plan and in the architectural design of the visitor centre;  8.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre to strengthen efforts to mobilize international support for the conservation of Hampi, particularly for large-scale regional infrastructure to support conservation and sustainable development objectives;  9.  Requests  the State Party to submit a progress report to the World Heritage Centre by 1 February 2004 for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 28th session in 2004 on the corrective measures taken;   10.  Decides  to retain the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger.