The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Reiterates  its recommendations made at its 25th session at the time of the inscription of the property;  2.  Recalls  paragraph 22 of the  Operational Guidelines : "Where the intrinsic qualities of a property nominated are threatened by action of man and yet meet the criteria and conditions of authenticity or integrity...an action plan should be submitted with the nomination file. Should the corrective measures submitted by the nominating State not be taken within the time proposed by the State, the property will be considered by the Committee for delisting in accordance with the procedures adopted by the Committee.";  3.  Expresses  its serious concern about the Wien-Mitte urban development project, adjacent to the World Heritage site of Vienna and located in the buffer zone of the site, and in particular about the architectural solutions and the height of the proposed towers;  4.  Recognizes  the need to develop and rehabilitate the area above the Bahnhof and acknowledges that from the economic and urban transport point of view no major impacts on the World Heritage values of the protected zone are to be expected;   5.  Requests  the State Party to provide by 1 October 2002 detailed information demonstrating that the recommendations made by the Committee at the time of the inscription have been taken into account. In case the State Party cannot provide the assurance for an acceptable solution, which conforms with the Committee\'s recommendation, the Committee will start the process of delisting the site in accordance with the established procedures;  6.  Strongly recommends  to limit any future large redevelopment activities in the buffer zone;  7.  Expresses  concern for the restoration practices currently observed in the Historic Centre, and requests the authorities to establish building renovation regulations and authorisation procedures appropriate to its status as a World Heritage property;\xc2\xa0\xc2\xa0  8.  Recommends  to the State Party to continue to improve its technical capacities in the field of historical building conservation, in order to ensure a more efficient control of any possible negative impacts. Timely information on planned interventions should be provided to the World Heritage Centre, in compliance with Paragraph 56 of the Operational Guidelines;  9.  Decides  to examine the situation at its 27th session in June/July 2003.