The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-09/33.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7B.76 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Notes  the progress made by the State Party in dealing with illegal buildings, preparing an inventory of heritage properties, starting the development of a management plan and carrying out mitigating measures at the Minh Mang and Khai Dinh Tombs to reduce the impact of the new highway; \n 4.  Notes, however , that no significant progress appears to have been made in developing a Statement of Outstanding Universal Value that includes consideration for the geomantic elements associated with the inscribed monuments, and in redefining accordingly the boundaries of the property and its buffer zone; \n 5.  Encourages  the State Party to consider, in due time, renominating the property and, in preparation for this, ensure that the management plan under preparation covers the areas being considered for the extension of the property and is based on a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value for the property that includes consideration for the geomantic elements associated with the inscribed monuments; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to ensure that the management plan is integrated in the larger regulatory framework being developed for the city of Hue (Master Plan); \n 7.  Urges  the State Party to complete the works needed to minimize the negative impact of noise and visual pollution on the Minh Mang and Khai Dinh tombs; \n 8.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to consider refraining from carrying out major infrastructure projects within the areas being considered for the extension of the property, as recommended by the 2006 mission, until an appropriate regulatory framework is approved, including the management plan for the property; \n 9.  Notes  press reports concerning ongoing international projects for the conservation of the World Heritage property and  recommends  to the State Party to ensure that all works are carefully coordinated within the framework of the management plan under elaboration; \n 10.  Invites  the State Party to request International Assistance to implement the recommendations of paragraph 5 above; \n 11.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011,  a progress report on the implementation of the recommendations above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.