The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Documents  WHC-09/33.COM/8B  and  WHC-09/33.COM/INF.8B1.Add , \n 2.  Inscribes  the  Ruins of Lorop&eacute;ni ,  Burkina Faso , on the World Heritage List on the basis of  criterion (iii) ; \n 3.  Adopts  the following Statement of Outstanding Universal Value: \n Brief Synthesis \n The dramatic and memorable Ruins of Lorop&eacute;ni consist of imposing, tall, laterite stone perimeter walls, up to six metres in height, surrounding a large abandoned settlement. As the best preserved of ten similar fortresses in the Lobi area, part of a larger group of around a hundred stone-built enclosures, they are part of a network of settlements that flourished at the same time as the trans-Saharan gold trade and appear to reflect the power and influence of that trade and its links with the Atlantic coast. Recent excavations have provided radio-carbon dates suggesting the walled enclosure at Lorop&eacute;ni dates back at least to the 11th century AD and flourished between the 14th and 17th centuries, thus establishing it as an important part of a network of settlements. \n  Criterion (iii):  Lorop&eacute;ni is the best preserved example of a type of fortified settlements in a wide part of West Africa, linked to the tradition of gold mining, which seems to have persisted through at least seven centuries. Lorop&eacute;ni, given its size and scope reflects a type of structure quite different from the walled towns of what is now Nigeria, or the cities of the upper reaches of the river Niger which flourished as part of the empires of Ghana, Mali and Songhai. It thus can be seen as an exceptional testimony to the settlement response generated by the gold trade. \n Integrity and Authenticity \n The authenticity of the fortified settlements as ruins is not in doubt. Although the precise history of Lorop&eacute;ni is only recently coming into focus through the recent research programme, and its function still remains in part speculative, the integrity of the monument in terms of its status as the largest and best preserved fortified settlement is satisfactory. In time as more evidence emerges, it may be necessary to consider whether a larger area could encompass more of the attributes that are linked to its use, function and history. \n Management and protection requirements \n The Committee of Protection and Management for the Ruins of Lorop&eacute;ni, the Scientific Council for the study, conservation and development of the Ruins of Lorop&eacute;ni and the Management Plan which has been implemented since 2005 form a good basis for management of the ruins as a focal point for sustainable development within the local community. \n 4.  Encourages  the State Party, should further scientific investigations indicate that the values for which this property has been inscribed may be present over a larger area, to consider the presentation of an extension of a larger boundary for the property, or a series of sites within the State Party that are historically linked to the property, to further increase the integrity and/or authenticity of the Outstanding Universal Value.