The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7B . Add , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.1  adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Regrets  that the State Party did not submit a report on the state of conservation of the property, as requested by the World Heritage Committee at its 32nd session; \n 4.  Notes with satisfaction  the findings of the mission that the Outstanding Universal Value of the property is intact and that the effectiveness of its management is considered to be at its highest level since the inscription of the property on the World Heritage List; \n 5.  Requests  the State Party to carry out the following recommendations of the joint 2008 UNESCO/IUCN reactive monitoring mission: \n a) Complete the Environmental Impact Assessment of the fence between the local community cropland and the forest reserve as soon as possible, and develop a comprehensive fencing plan for the property; ensure that barriers to minimise human-wildlife conflict in the periphery of the national reserve and adjacent forest reserves are compatible with maintaining the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; and maintain the present moratorium on further fence construction until an approved fencing plan is in place, \n b) Clarify, agree and formalise arrangements between Kenya Wildlife Service and Kenya Forest Service for the joint management of the property, defining the respective roles of each authority, \n c) Finalise by  1 February 2010  the alignment, documentation and on-the-ground demarcation of the proposed internal boundary between forestry plantation zones and natural forest, \n d) Finalise by  1 February 2010  the management plan for the property, according to the new Kenya Wildlife Service protected area planning guidelines, ensuring full consultation with key stakeholders and local communities, \n e) Maintain and enhance protection activities aimed at eliminating subsistence hunting, illegal logging, forest fires etc. within the property and adjacent reserves. In particular, strengthen the capacity of the Kenya Forest Service in the region, so that it can effectively manage the buffer zone of the property; \n 6.  Notes with concern  the reported impacts of climate change on the property and  recommends  the State Party to exchange experience with other States Parties and experts, including experts of the World Commission on Protected Areas (WCPA), working on mountain World Heritage conservation, climate change and other environmental phenomena to explore appropriate and practical strategies for maintaining the Outstanding Universal Value of the property in the long term; \n 7.  Encourages  the State Party to consider and assess with the support of the World Heritage Centre, IUCN and local stakeholders the feasibility of extending the boundaries of the property to include undisturbed forest areas; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , a copy of the management plan, together with copies of any more specific monitoring reports that have been completed on the values of the property; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011 , a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and progress in implementing the recommendations of the 2008 joint UNESCO/IUCN mission, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.