The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7A.29,  adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes with satisfaction  and  appreciates  the significant progress made in the implementation of corrective measures within the timeframe for implementation, particularly in regard to the implementation of the management plan; \n 4.  Takes note  that the State Party has developed a proposal for the desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger and  urges  the State Party to complete its review in cooperation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 5.  Also notes  the updating of the plan of the property and the establishment of a buffer zone which will be articulated with other planning tools at the territorial and municipal levels and  requests  the State Party to submit the new boundaries for the buffer zone, including appropriate cartography as well as the legal framework for its regulation and protection, for approval by the World Heritage Committee; \n 6.  Reiterates its concern  about the lack of enforcement of protective legislation and regulatory measures in full to guarantee the protection of the site and  urges  the State Party to conclude the revision process to ensure the sustainability of the management system; \n 7.  Also reiterates its request  to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value within the framework of the Retrospective Inventory for Latin America and the Caribbean; \n 8.  Further reiterates its request  to the State Party, in light of the new tourism pressures, to revise provisions for public use and visitor management at the property and to integrate measures into the existing management plan; \n 9.  Notes  the advances made by the State Party in the preparation of the emergency and disaster preparedness plan and  also requests  a copy to be sent to World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies upon finalization at the end of 2009; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to provide secure funding to the management unit (Unidad Ejecutora 110) in order to guarantee the implementation of activities foreseen in the management plan; \n 11.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010,  a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and on the progress made in the implementation of the above recommendations, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 12.   Decides  to retain Chan Chan Archaeological Zone (Peru) on the List of World Heritage in Danger .