The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/11C , \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  31 COM 10  and  32 COM 11A , adopted respectively at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007) and its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008); \n 3.  Takes note  of the results of activities in preparation for the launching of the Second cycle of Periodic Reporting, and in particular the workshop for the preparation of draft Statements of Outstanding Universal Value organized in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania (March 2009) ; \n 4.  Expresses  its thanks to the Swiss Government and the African World Heritage Fund for their financial support in the preparation of the exercise for the Second cycle of Periodic Reporting; \n 5.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies to pursue the implementation of the Regional Programme for Africa, and  encourages  them to continue seeking funding for its implementation; \n 6.  Requests  those States Parties of the Africa region that have not yet responded to the questions raised in the framework of the retrospective inventory to provide all clarifications and documentation requested before  1 February 2010  ; \n 7.  Also requests  States Parties of the Africa region to revise or prepare all the missing Statements of Outstanding Universal Value concerning properties located on their territory and to submit them by  1 February 2010  for examination at the 35th session of the World Heritage Committee in 2011; \n 8.  Urges  States Parties of the Africa region to actively participate in the second cycle of Periodic Reporting and to take the opportunity to strengthen their management capacities for World Heritage properties; \n 9.  Invites  States Parties, the African World Heritage Fund, the World Heritage Centre and all the actors involved in the conservation and management of African natural and cultural heritage to develop a fund-raising strategy to boost the financial resources required for the implementation of  World Heritage Convention  in Africa and  encourages  twinning programmes for specific action in capacity building and periodic reporting ; \n 10.  Also invites  African States Parties to host regional and sub-regional meetings foreseen in the framework of the second cycle of Periodic Reporting and thanks the State Party of Kenya for its offer to host the sub-regional meeting for Eastern Africa; \n 11.  Also requests  the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies to provide assistance to African States Parties in the preparation of the Periodic Report; \n 12.  Decides  to launch a second cycle of Periodic Reporting in the Africa region and  also decides  to allocate USD 150,000 for the implementation of activities foreseen in this framework; \n 13.  Warmly acknowledges  the work of the Africa 2009 and Africa Nature programmes; \n 14.  Supports  a follow-up programme for Africa 2009 and  requests  a report to be presented to the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010, to be integrated in the periodic reporting for Africa; \n 15.  Further requests  the World Heritage Centre, in consultation with the Advisory Bodies and the States Parties, to develop programme activities based on the results of the Africa 2009 and African Nature programmes; \n 16.  Requests furthermore  the World Heritage Centre to keep it informed of progress achieved in the Periodic Reporting exercise at its 34th session in 2010.