The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7A.9 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Regrets  that the State Party did not submit a state of conservation report on the property, as requested by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session, making it impossible to assess progress in addressing the corrective measures; \n 4.  Expresses its concern  that the State party has not yet organized the donor conference, which was requested by the World Heritage Committee since its 33rd session and  notes  that without the mobilisation of additional funding it will be impossible to implement some of the outstanding corrective measures, in particular the grazing pressure reduction strategy and the effective measures to address agricultural encroachment in the property; \n 5.  Urges  the State Party to organise as soon as possible the donor conference in order to identify potential donors, and  reiterates its request  to the International Community to financially support the implementation of the grazing management and alternative livelihoods strategies; \n 6.  Also urges  the State Party to continue its efforts to implement the three remaining outstanding corrective measures, in particular the priority actions requested by the World Heritage Committee in its previous decision; \n 7.  Encourages  to the State Party to submit the proposed extension of the property through the preparation of a new nomination, and to apply for International Assistance to support this process; \n 8.  Recommends  that the State Party seek support from the World Heritage Centre, IUCN and the African World Heritage Fund to meet the outstanding corrective measures; \n 9.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1February2012 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, in particular on progress accomplished in the implementation of corrective measures and the recommendations of the 2009 mission, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 10.   Decides    to retain Simien Mountains National Park (Ethiopia) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.