The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7A.3,  adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Welcomes  the signing of the Abidjan Declaration, July 2010, which aims to establish a joint system of monitoring and management coordination between the Guinean and Ivorian States Parties and strengthen tri-national cooperation, and  reiterates its request  to the States Parties to consult at the earliest to develop and implement a common strategy for the management and joint surveillance of Mount Nimba, by organising a meeting of the Tri-national Commission; \n 4.  Notes with satisfaction  the clarification of the legal status of the part of the property situated in Guinea, and confirmation by C&ocirc;te d\'Ivoire that no mining concession has been granted in the Ivorian part of the property; \n 5.  Expresses its deep concern  about the possible consequences of the current political crisis in C&ocirc;te d\'Ivoire on the worsening security in the Ivorian part of the property, which would prevent regular access by the management authority and severely compromise the progress made by the State Party in setting up a management body and beginning procedures for the elaboration of a joint management plan; \n 6.  Notes with concern  the insufficient progress in implementing the corrective measures adopted by the World Heritage Committee at its 31st (Christchurch, 2007) and 32nd (Quebec City, 2008) sessions, and  urges  both States Parties to intensify their efforts to pursue the implementation of corrective measures and other recommendations of the World Heritage Committee; \n 7.  Requests  the State Party of Guinea to encourage periodical monitoring of the effectiveness of the management of the property, using the tool "Enhancing Our Heritage", to better implement the current priorities for the management of the property; \n 8.  Further requests  both States Parties to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1February2012 , a detailed report on the state of conservation and the progress made in implementing the corrective measures and other recommendations of the 2007 and 2008 missions, and in eliminating threats linked to mining prospecting, for consideration by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 9.   Decides    to retain the Mount Nimba Strict Nature Reserve (C&ocirc;te d\'Ivoire and Guinea) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.