The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7B.106 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Regrets  that the State Party did not submit the retrospective Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, and  requests  the State Party to submit it to the World Heritage Centre; \n 4.  Notes  the information provided by the State Party and  urges  it to commence negotiation and the necessary evaluation processes for the definition and implementation of planning tools and regulatory measures to ensure the protection of the property; \n 5.  Encourages  the State Party to continue with the implementation of the regularization process for the southern local commerce area, with the revitalization plan for Vila Planalto and the control and enforcement of regulations along the Paranoa Lake rim to ensure the protection of the attributes that sustain the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 6.  Also requests  the State Party to finalize the establishment of the buffer zone, including the corresponding regulatory measures to control and regulate further development, and submit them to the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies for review; \n 7.  Reiterates its request , in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines , to submit detailed information and technical studies, as they become available, on planned interventions with special attention on land use, transportation systems and new urban interventions, for consideration and review by the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, prior to approval and implementation; \n 8.  Further requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to evaluate the existing management arrangements, the status of pending projects and unregulated activities and to assist in the development of appropriate lines of action related to the property\'s conservation and development; \n 9.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , an updated report on the state of conservation of the property and the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012.