The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-09/33.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.88 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Considers  that the State Party has made progress in putting in place measures to strengthening the functioning of an independent International Scientific Committee and in proposing changes in governance to separate administrative and scientific functions, and  requests  that these need to be implemented as soon as possible; \n 4.  Notes  the work planned to consider the impact of different mitigation approaches and  also considers  that the Protocol on Intervention that has been developed should be made public, as this could be used as a best practice example for other similar properties; \n 5.  Also notes  the progress made in communicating details of work and approaches and  considers  that it would be helpful to develop a communication strategy to ensure consistency; \n 6.  Further notes with concern  the results of the March 2009 reactive monitoring mission to the property; \n 7.  Notes furthermore  that although currently only some of the paintings have been directly affected, and the overall impact of the various outbreaks of mould on the paintings has not threatened so far the Outstanding Universal Value and integrity of the property, the situation remains worrisome; \n 8.  Acknowledges  the good work that has been carried out by the State Party and  urges  the State Party to continue its process of research and mitigation; \n 9.  Further considers  nevertheless the extreme urgency of the work being undertaken to identify the optimum approaches to mitigation and research to document and map the overall climatic conditions of the cave as a precursor to the development of appropriate climate control mechanisms; \n 10.  Considers furthermore  that interventions should be based on prudence and a clearly articulated conservation approach in the absence of further emergencies; \n 11.  Urges  the State Party to formalize the new management framework based on a separation between administrative and scientific functions, and  also requests  the State Party to give appropriate resources to the new independent and international Scientific Committee and  invites  representatives of ICOMOS and ICCROM to participate in its meetings; \n 12.  Further requests  that the State Party continues to evaluate the causes of the problem and the different approaches for conservation and develop, on the basis of the priorities adopted by the International Scientific Committee, a detailed action plan with a timeframe for the next three years; \n 13.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , a report on the state of conservation of the property with respect to the points above and on progress made in the creation of the above-mentioned action plan, for the examination of the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010.