The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  document WHC-11/35COM/10A, \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  33 COM 11C  and  34 COM 10B.1 , adopted respectively at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009) and 34th session (Brasilia, 2010); \n 3.  Expresses its sincere appreciation  to the States Parties from the Africa region for their efforts in preparing and submitting their Periodic Reports; \n 4.  Notes with satisfaction  that all the 44 States Parties of the Africa region participated in the completion of Section I of the Periodic Reporting questionnaire and that all 78 World Heritage properties in the region were reported on; \n 5.  Commends  the Governments of Senegal, Cameroon, Kenya, Namibia and South Africa for respectively hosting various meetings for the Periodic Reporting exercise; \n 6.  Thanks  the Governments of Norway, Switzerland, the Netherlands and France, as well as the African World Heritage Fund and the Nordic World Heritage Foundation for their support; \n 7.  Also thanks  in particular, the Regional Coordinator, all Focal Points and site managers for their commitment and participation throughout the periodic reporting exercise; \n 8.  Also notes  the successful use of the electronic tool and the ensuing pertinent documentation gathered in the World Heritage Centre database for future monitoring and follow-up; \n 9.  Welcomes with satisfaction  the synthesis report of the Africa region States Parties and  encourages  the development of a regional Action Plan as agreed by the States Parties at the final Regional meeting in South Africa and  thanks  the government of Denmark for its support towards this process; \n 10.  Strongly encourages  publication of the synthesis report of the Africa region States Parties to ensure its wide distribution in the region, and  calls on  the international community to support this action; \n 11.  Decides  that significant modifications to boundaries and changes tocriteria (re-nominations) requested by States Parties as a follow-up to theSecond Cycle of the Periodic Reporting Exercise will not fall within the limit of two nominations per State Party per year imposed byParagraph 61 of the  Operational Guidelines , while they will still fall within the overall limit of forty-five complete nominations per year.This decision shall apply for the  1February2012  and  1February2013  deadlines for the Africa region, after which time the normal limit established in Paragraph 61 will be resumed; \n 12.  Further notes  the States Parties\' request for concerted efforts to effectively address the conflicting interests of conservation and development needs and  requests  the World Heritage Centre to organise, in partnership with the African World Heritage Fund, a special meeting on managing the impacts of development activities and resource extraction in and around World Heritage properties in the Africa region; \n 13.  Recognises  the valuable role played by local communities, including indigenous peoples, in the management of cultural and natural heritage properties in Africa and  also requests  that research programmes on African World Heritage properties should also focus on the involvement of the local communities in their implementation and derivation of direct benefits; \n 14.  Takes note  of the initial work undertaken by the two regional training institutions, Ecole du Patrimoine Africain and Centre for Heritage Development in Africa, to propose a Capacity Building Strategy, and  calls on  the international community to continue the support to these two institutions so that they can continue to play a vital role in the implementation of the  Convention  in the region; \n 15.  Encourages  States Parties to focus on national train-the-trainers programmes to ensure that the impacts of the global World Heritage Capacity Building Strategy   are maximised at national level while fully involving young professionals in these activities for long term sustainability; \n 16.  Also welcomes  the role that the African World Heritage Fund (AWHF) has been playing in the implementation of its mandate and  calls upon  African States Parties to reinforce their financial and human resource support for the Fund; \n 17.  Also calls upon  African State Parties to avail themselves of the opportunities for International Assistance as offered by the African World Heritage Fund; \n 18.  Further requests  the States Parties to continue to work closely with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies to further develop the regional and sub-regional Action Plans into an operational Regional Programme including priorities, time tables, and budgetary implications for the African States Parties, tailored to sub-regional needs, and  finally requests  the World Heritage Centre to present the Action Plan, the Africa Nature and Africa 2020 programmes to the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012.