The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7A.Add , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7A.9 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Congratulates  the State Party for the positive action it has taken in addressing corrective measures as recommended by the World Heritage Committee at its 30th, 31st and 32nd sessions; \n 4.  Welcomes  the progress made in the implementation of the corrective measures adopted by the World Heritage Committee at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2006), in particular, the efforts to extend the property to include key habitat areas for the Walia ibex and Ethiopian wolf and the development of strategies to address the threats from grazing and settlements; \n 5.  Requests  the State Party to urgently re-gazette the newly established boundaries and start implementing the strategy to address the grazing pressure and the Alternative Livelihoods Development Project; \n 6.  Expresses its concern  that no measures to address the grazing strategy are included in the management plan and  urges  the State Party to ensure that this key threat to the Outstanding Universal Value of the property is addressed as part of the management plan; \n 7.  Calls upon  the international community to financially support the implementation of the management plan and  also requests  the State Party to organize a donor conference with the assistance of UNESCO and Advisory Bodies to identify potential donors and funding; \n 8.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to invite as soon as possible the joint World Heritage Centre / IUCN mission to the property, as requested by the World Heritage Committee at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008) to assess its state of conservation, review the draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, and to develop a proposal for the desired state of conservation for removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, with a view to removing it from the List of World Heritage in Danger at its 34th session in 2010; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and on progress in the implementation of the corrective measures and the other recommendations of the 2006 monitoring mission, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 10.   Decides    to retain Simien National Park (Ethiopia) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.