The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7A.8 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Expresses its sincere condolences  to the families of the guards who were killed during protection operations at the property since its previous session; \n 4.  Welcomes  the continued efforts to implement the corrective measures, and in particular the preparation of the management plan and efforts to curb poaching; \n 5.  Expresses its concern  about the preliminary results of the 2011 wildlife survey, which seem to indicate that contrary to expectations, the recovery of wildlife populations has not yet started but that populations of certain wildlife species continue to decline and  requests  the State Party once the final results are available to assess the current status of the Outstanding Universal Value in relation to the Desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger in order to review the need to update the corrective measures and the timeline for their implementation; \n 6.  Reiterates  the need to put in place appropriate actions to facilitate the control of traffic on the RN4 road crossing the Reserve by the management authority of the property, the Congolese Institute for Nature Conservation (ICCN), in particular the closure of the road for traffic during the night and the installation of a toll system; \n 7.  Urges  the State Party to continue to implement the updated corrective measures adopted by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session (Sevilla, 2009); \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, in particular on the status of the Outstanding Universal Value based on the final results of the 2011 survey, on progress accomplished in the implementation of the corrective measures as well as the other recommendations of the 2009 mission, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 9.   Decides    to retain Okapi Wildlife Reserve (Democratic Republic of the Congo) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.