The World Heritage Committee [2],  1.  Noting  the results of the report provided by the UNESCO and IUCN mission to the property and the existing number of positive actions that have been carried out by the State Party to improve the management of the property and the protection of the World Heritage value of the property,;  2.  Commends  the State Party for positive actions undertaken so far for the conservation of the property, particularly in relation to the control of illegal logging, charcoal kilns and marijuana fields;   3.  Urges  the State Party to clarify jurisdiction arrangements over the plantation zone between the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) and the Forest Department and confirm that this zone will be managed either by the Forest Department or in close co-operation with it;   4.   Also  Urges  the State Party to finalize the Mount Kenya National Park Management Plan;   5.   Further  Urges  the State Party to redouble its efforts to ensure the integrity and value of the property. These actions should include:   (a) the importance of leaving key migration corridors to prevent genetic isolation of the Mount Kenya elephant stock,  (b) undertaking further surveillance and enforcement to eradicate illegal activities around the property for the long-term conservation,   (c) undertaking further work on the plan and a new round of community consultations in order to produce a management plan that will effectively guide the long-term conservation of the property;  6.  Acknowledges  the financial support provided to the property by the Mount Kenya donor/partner forum chaired by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Global Environment Facility (GEF)-United Nations Foundation Community Management of Protected Areas Conservation (COMPACT) initiative, United Nations Foundation (UNF), International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and further acknowledges the contribution of the Italian Government under the Italian Funds- in- Trust agreement with UNESCO;  7.  Requests  the State Party to submit a report to the World Heritage Centre by 1 February 2004, addressing the recommendations from the UNESCO/IUCN mission in order that the World Heritage Committee can examine the state of conservation of the property at its 28th session in 2004;  8.  Encourages  the State Party to undertake further work for the planning of a new round of community consultations in order to produce a management plan that will effectively guide the long-term conservation of the property.   [2]\xc2\xa0 Decision adopted without discussio