The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Documents WHC-07/31.COM/8B and WHC-07/31.COM/INF.8B.1,  2.  Having taken note  of the following statement by the Chairperson of the World Heritage Committee which has been agreed to by the Delegation of Cambodia and the Delegation of Thailand:  "The State Party of Cambodia and the State Party of Thailand are in full agreement that the Sacred Site of the Temple of Preah Vihear has Outstanding Universal Value and must be inscribed on the World Heritage List as soon as possible. Accordingly, Cambodia and Thailand agree that Cambodia will propose the site for formal inscription on the World Heritage List at the 32nd session of the World Heritage Committee in 2008 with the active support of Thailand.  They also agree that the site is in need of urgent attention and requires international financial and technical assistance and close cooperation between them.  They further agree that it is essential to strengthen conservation and management at the site including by the development of an appropriate management plan, as required under paragraph 108 of the  Operational Guidelines , that will ensure the future protection of this property.  They understand, following consultation with the World Heritage Centre, that financial and technical assistance for the development of a management plan will be available through the World Heritage Centre\'s International Assistance programme."   3.  Recognizes  that the  Sacred Site of the Temple of Preah Vihear  is of great international significance and has Outstanding Universal Value on the basis of criteria (i), (ii) and (iv),  agrees  in principle that it should be inscribed on the World Heritage List and  notes  that the process for inscription is in progress;  4.  Requests  the State Party of Cambodia to strengthen conservation and management at the site by making progress in developing an appropriate management plan, which progress will enable its formal inscription by the Committee at its 32nd session in 2008;  5.  Further requests  the State Party of Cambodia to submit a progress report to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2008 .