The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Recalling  decision  26 COM 21 (b) 6  taken during the 26th session of the World Heritage Committee, requesting the State Party to provide a detailed report on the situation with regard to poaching of wildlife at the property, and encouraging the State Party to invite a mission to Ta\xc3\xaf National Park   to   evaluate the state of conservation of the property and to inform the Committee on whether or not it should be inscribed on the List of World Heritage in Danger,;  2.  Takes note  of the recent report submitted by the State Party to the World Heritage Centre informing of the present situation at the property;  3.  Takes note  that the property is no longer occupied by rebel forces;   4.  Expresses  its concern with regard to the eventual impact on the integrity of the property caused by civil unrest;  5.  Requests  the State Party to submit a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property to the World Heritage Centre by 1 February 2004, if possible, with particular reference to the impact of poaching at the property, the reopening of hunting throughout the country and the effects of civil unrest on the integrity of the property;   6.  Accepts  the invitation of the State Party for a mission, as requested during its 26th session, and requests IUCN and the World Heritage Centre to field a mission as soon as the security in the country is assured. The objective of the mission would be to review the state of conservation of the property. The report of the mission and the report of the State Party are to be provided in order that the World Heritage Committee can examine the state of conservation of the property at its 28th session in 2004;  7.  Encourages  donors such as GTZ (German Technical Co-operation) and the European Union, who already assist the State Party in the management of the development of Ta\xc3\xaf, as well as the non-governmental organizations (NGOs), to continue their support, and also encourages other donors to mobilise their resources to support other properties in the C\xc3\xb4te d\'Ivoire.