The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7A.7,  adopted at its 34rd session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Reiterates its concern  about the delay in the implementation of the corrective measures established by the World Heritage Committee at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), in particular the anti-poaching strategy and the joint operation between the park\'s management authority (ICCN) and the Congolese Army to remove poachers and armed groups from the property; \n 4.  Regrets  that no information was provided on the strategy to minimize and mitigate the impact of villages in the Park, the agreements under discussion with the local communities on the use of the natural resources and the preliminary studies conducted on the establishment of a corridor between the two parts of the property as requested by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session and  urges  the State Party to provide this information as soon as possible and before the requested reactive monitoring mission to the property, together with a copy of the draft of a General Management Plan;    \n 5.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to reinforce its efforts to implement the corrective measures, and to report on a regular basis on its implementation as part of the Reinforced monitoring mechanism; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/IUCN reactive monitoring mission to evaluate the state of conservation of the property and progress achieved in the implementation of the corrective measures, to develop a draft Desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger in cooperation with the State Party, and to update the corrective measures and the timetable for their implementation; \n 7.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1February2012 , a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and progress achieved in the implementation of all the corrective measures, in particular those regarding the organization of a combined anti-poaching operation in cooperation with the Congolese Army (FARDC) to secure the property, and on the implementation of the strategy for anti-poaching, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 8.  Decides  to continue to apply the Reinforced monitoring mechanism; \n 9.   Also decides    to retain Salonga National Park (Democratic Republic of the Congo) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.