The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Expresses  its concern to the State Party about new leaks of contaminated water at the Ranger uranium mine and the Jabiluka mineral lease adjacent to Kakadu National Park.\xc2\xa0 The Committee is also concerned about reported shortcomings in the regulatory reporting procedures at both mine sites and deficiencies in the management of ore stockpiles at the Ranger mine which reduce public confidence, in the management and monitoring of the two sites.\xc2\xa0 Finally, the Committee\xc2\xa0stresses the need to adopt a strict environmental regime appropriate to a World Heritage property;  2.  Notes  the report of the Supervising Scientist which concluded that the environment and people downstream of the mine were not at risk at any time during or after the incident.\xc2\xa0 Nevertheless, the State Party recognizes the need to follow international best practice.\xc2\xa0 To this end the Minister for Environment and Heritage has discussed these issues with the Traditional Owners of Kakadu, Energy Resources of Australia Ltd. (ERA) and the Supervising Scientist;  3.  Notes  that the State Party has reported that the mining company has made a commitment to meet ISO14001 standards of environmental management at both Jabiluka and Ranger by July 2003;\xc2\xa0   4.  Requests  the State Party to provide details of how these new, more stringent conditions will be fully met by ERA;  5.  Notes  that the State Party will co-operate with the Australian Senate Inquiry which will examine the regulatory, monitoring and reporting regimes at Ranger, Jabiluka and uranium operations elsewhere in Australia.\xc2\xa0 The State Party will also co-operate with the Northern Territory technical review into the regulation of the Ranger and Jabiluka operations;  6.  Welcomes  the fact that the Minister has decided to appoint a suitably qualified conservation NGO representative to the Alligator Rivers Region Technical Committee (ARRTC), and will consult with NGOs on this appointment.\xc2\xa0 ARRTC, at the request of the World Heritage Committee, continues to monitor and review the water management and other environmental issues at Jabiluka and Ranger, including those referred to in document WHC-02/CONF.202/17;  7. Is pleased to  note  with satisfaction that a cultural heritage management workshop was recently organized by Australia ICOMOS and the Gundjehmi Aboriginal Corporation with the support of Environment Australia.\xc2\xa0 The Committee requests ICOMOS to keep the World Heritage Centre informed of continuing co-operative efforts with Traditional Owners in this regard; 8.  Requests  that the State Party report on progress on all the issues raised above by 1 February 2003 for review by its 27th session in June/July 2003.