The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7A.12 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes  the State Party\'s efforts to implement the corrective measures adopted by the Committee at is 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008) and the initiative by the Bodoland Territorial Council to expand Manas National Park to the west which will contribute to the improved integrity of the property; \n 4.  Takes note  of the results of the comprehensive wildlife survey which seems to confirm that the recovery of wildlife populations has started but is still at an early stage, and  reiterates its position  that a clear upward trend of these populations needs to be demonstrated in order to allow for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger; \n 5.  Requests  the State Party to base further monitoring of wildlife trends on the results of the comprehensive wildlife survey and  encourages  the State Party to consider expanding the monitoring of the property to include the habitat; \n 6.  Also requests  the State Party to continue the implementation of the corrective measures adopted by the World Heritage Committee at its 32nd session, as well as the other recommendations of the 2008 World Heritage Centre / IUCN monitoring mission, in particular the finalization of the management plan, and to submit it to the World Heritage Centre and IUCN for information; \n 7.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and Advisory Bodies, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value and a proposal for the desired state of conservation for removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, based on the available baseline data on wildlife populations and habitat, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 8.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010,  a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and on the implementation of the corrective measures and recommendations of the World Heritage Committee, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 9.   Decides  to retain Manas National Park (India) on the List of World Heritage in Dange.