The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Documents  WHC-09/33.COM/5A, WHC- 09/33.COM/INF.5A.1, WHC-09/33.COM/INF.5A.2,  and  WHC-09/33.COM/INF.5A.3 , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 5  adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Takes note with appreciation  of the activities undertaken by the World Heritage Centre over the past year in pursuit of the Committee\'s five Strategic Objectives; \n 4.  Takes also note  of the findings of the study undertaken by UNESCO\'s Internal Oversight Service on the mapping of the workload of the World Heritage Centre presented in Document  WHC-09/33.COM/INF.5A.3;   \n 5.  Notes with satisfaction  that the World Heritage Centre is working with the secretariats of intergovernmental committees of related conventions such as the  Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage , and the  Convention for the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage-2001  and  recommends  that such cooperation be encouraged as this would further strengthen the work of the Centre; \n 6.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre to prepare a document on the  World Heritage Convention  and its cooperation and exchange with other conventions and programmes in the field of cultural heritage for discussion at the 34th session of the World Heritage Committee (2010); \n 7.  Also requests  the World Heritage Centre, in future reports on activities undertaken, to further strengthen the information and analysis available to States Parties by: \n a) Retaining the current format to report activities and including an update on progress with implementing the Committee\'s decisions, \n b) Describing the criteria by which the World Heritage Centre makes decisions as to which activities under the  Convention  it undertakes, \n c) And including, on a discretionary basis, analysis of strategic issues and new directions; \n 8.  Further requests  the World Heritage Centre to produce, on an experimental basis, an indexed audio  verbatim  recording of the proceedings of the 33rd Session in addition to the standard summary records (as produced since the 26th session of the World Heritage Committee); \n 9.  Notes  the outline provided by the World Heritage Centre of its roles and the roles of the Advisory Bodies and  agrees  that this topic be further discussed at the 34th session of the Committee in 2010 under a separate agenda item; \n 10.  Requests furthermore  the World Heritage Centre to outline the forward direction of the World Heritage thematic programmes and initiatives, to enable an understanding of how these themes connect with and integrate into general programmes, and how they might be resourced; \n 11.  Notes  that the Centre already proactively engages women in its Heritage Programmes in Asia, Africa and the Caribbean as part of its gender balance policy and the provision of equal opportunity to all, and  recommends  that gender balance and community involvement be prioritized in the Centre\'s programmes; \n 12.  Adopts  the World Heritage Thematic Programme on Prehistory presented in Annex 1 of document  WHC-09/33.COM/5A ; \n 13.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre to reconsider the term "prehistory", to better recognize the continuing cultures of indigenous communities, to ensure global representation in the identification and conservation of related properties, and to present a report on progress in developing an Action Plan on Prehistory and World Heritage at its 34th session in 2010; \n 14.  Notes with concern  the ongoing destruction of some of these fragile sites, including the recent destruction of the Rock Art sites of Tardrat Acacus in Libya, and  requests  the State Party to take immediate action and other measures as necessary to address the problem in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS mission; \n 15.  Expresses its gratitude  to the Governments of Bahrain, South Africa and Spain for the financial and technical support for the various international scientific encounters, and  recognizes the proposal of the Government of Spain in establishing a centre for the research of Prehistory; \n 16.  Recalling  the Decision of the World Heritage Committee  31 COM.21C  to carry out a programme of sustainable development concerning the conservation of earthen architecture,  thanks  the Governments of Italy and France for their support of the programme on earthen architecture in Africa and the Arab States in particular, and  requests  the potential financial donors and the States Parties to support the implementation of activities and  further requests  the World Heritage Centre to submit a progress report at its 35th session in 2011; \n 17.  Takes note  of the progress report on the World Heritage Tourism Programme; \n 18.  Thanks  the Governments of Australia, China, France, India, Switzerland and United Kingdom, who have worked in close collaboration with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, the World Tourism Organization and other partners, for contributing to the Initiative of Sustainable Tourism; \n 19.  Expresses its gratitude  to the Governments of Australia and China for the organization of a workshop on sustainable tourism at the World Heritage site, Mogao Caves, China, in September-October 2009 and  requests  that the following elements be submitted to the Committee for examination at its 34th session in 2010: \n a) A report on the workshop, \n b) The subsequent recommendations of the workshop regarding the adoption of best practices policy guidance, and concerning the changes proposed for the  Operational Guidelines for the implementation of the World Heritage Convention , \n c) A document concerning the progress of the World Heritage Programme on Tourism; \n 20.  Finally requests  the Director of the World Heritage Centre to identify supplementary sources of funding to put into place a sufficient number of staff and resources at the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies in order to continue to efficiently contribute to the resolution of problems related to World Heritage conservation.