The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7A.Add , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7A.16 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes  the efforts of the State Party to set up a management structure on site; \n 4.  Requests  the State Party to take all possible emergency measures to protect the eastern part of the property from the rising waters of the Tigris River, to undertake necessary maintenance and conservation work to avoid further damage, and to ensure continuing site security; \n 5.  Encourages  the State Party, should the situation allow it, to implement the corrective measures previously identified: \n a) Relocation or cancellation of the dam project; \n b) Emergency excavations and protective measures against seepage; \n c) Preparation and implementation of a conservation and management plan; \n d) Protection and consolidation of fragile mud brick structures. \n 6.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value and a proposal for the desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010, as well as to provide a detailed map of the boundaries of the property; \n 7.  Calls upon  the international community to provide the necessary assistance to the State Party for the protection of this property; \n 8.  Also   requests  the State Party, should the conditions allow it, to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to Ashur to assess the state of conservation of the property; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by 1 February 2010, a report for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 10.   Decides  to retain Ashur (Qal\'at Sherqat) (Iraq) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.