The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7A.11 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Expresses its deep concern  over the results of the aerial surveillance mission in March 2011, which showed a significant decline in biodiversity and a significant degradation of the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 4.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to undertake, as soon as possible, a census of key species of fauna of the property with the technical support of the IUCN Species Survival Commission to assess the state of the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; this census could provide the basis for a recovery plan of the animal populations and the establishment of an ecological monitoring mechanism, and  invites  the State Party to submit a request for International Assistance for financial support; \n 5.  Urges  the State Party to intensify its efforts to urgently implement the revised corrective measures adopted by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session, as well as the other recommendations of the 2007 and 2010 World Heritage Centre / IUCN joint missions to halt the decline in biodiversity and prevent loss of Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 6.  Notes with satisfaction  the efforts undertaken with the support of IUCN, to strengthen the anti-poaching mechanism and increase the number of personnel at the property, as well as the State Party\'s decision to initiate a three-year Emergency Plan with funding of 3 billion CFA francs (4,573,470 Euros), to implement the corrective measures; \n 7.  Also reiterates its call  upon the international community to provide support for the urgent implementation of the corrective measures; \n 8.  Notes with concern  that the aerial survey report reveals the presence of a large basalt quarry inside the property and  also urges  the State Party to take the necessary steps to close the quarry and rehabilitate the site; \n 9.  Reiterates its concern  about the proposed dam at Sambangalou and its request to present a specific study of the impacts of this dam on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, including the possible reduction in gallery-forest areas and palm forests, on the large wildlife river-crossings and on the water supply to flood basins and ponds in the property, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 10.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , a detailed report on the state of conservation and the progress made in implementing the corrective measures and the Emergency Plan for consideration by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 11.   Decides    to retain Niokolo-Koba National Park (Senegal) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.