The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  30 COM 7B.77, 31 COM 7A.27  and  32 COM 7A.26 , adopted at its 30th (Vilnius, 2006), 31st (Christchurch, 2007) and 32nd (Quebec City, 2008) sessions respectively, and in particular its concern that the construction project of the Waldschl&ouml;sschen Bridge would irreversibly damage the Outstanding Universal Value and integrity of the property in accordance with Paragraph 179 (b) of the  Operational Guidelines , \n 3.  Also recalling  the report provided by the reinforced monitoring mission of February 2008 confirming that the current bridge project would irreversibly damage the Outstanding Universal Value and integrity of the property, \n 4.  Further recalling  that, according to Article 6.1 of the  Convention , the properties inscribed on the World Heritage List constitute World Heritage, the protection of which is the duty of the international community as a whole and  recalling further  the duty of the international community to assist and to cooperate with States Parties in their endeavour to conserve such heritage, \n 5.  Recalling as well  that States Parties have the obligation under the  Convention  to protect and conserve the World Cultural and Natural Heritage situated on their territory, notably to ensure that effective and active measures are taken for the protection and conservation of such heritage, \n 6.  Notes with deep regret  that the State Party was unable to fulfil its obligations defined in the  Convention , in particular the obligation to protect and conserve the Outstanding Universal Value, as inscribed, of the World Heritage property of the Dresden Elbe Valley; \n 7.  Regrets  that the entreaties of the World Heritage Committee at its 30th, 31st, and 32nd sessions failed to protect the property; \n 8.  Also regrets  the fact that the authorities have not halted the project, detrimental to the Outstanding Universal Value of the property and that the damage already caused has not been reversed; \n 9.   Decides  to delete the Dresden Elbe Valley (Germany) from the World Heritage List.   \n 10.  Notes  however the commitment of the State Party to fully explore and exhaust all options towards preserving the Outstanding Universal Value inherent in elements of the Dresden Elbe Valley, \n 11.  Considers  that a new nomination for the heritage of Dresden which justifies Outstanding Universal Value could be envisaged, governed by the provisions of Section III of the  Operational Guidelines .