The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Documents  WHC-09/33.COM/16B , and  WHC-09/33.COM/16B Rev, Annex 1 ; \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 17  (Quebec, 2008), \n 3.  Expresses concern  that the budget documents as originally presented to the meeting were unclear in a number of areas and included some information that did not easily allow for comparison with the previous biennium; \n 4.  Notes with appreciation , the World Heritage Centre\'s co-operation in providing further explanations and additional information during the Committee\'s 33rd session; \n 5.  Requests  the Secretariat to include in the text of all future budget documents for consideration by the Committee a clear explanation of any significant variations between current and proposed budget amounts; \n 6.  Requests  the Secretariat to present analysis of future budget information under headings that reflect the key areas of activity under the  Convention , including development and assessment of nominations, support for conservation of properties, public awareness and engagement, organisation and support of meetings, and the conduct of additional studies and evaluations; \n 7.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre, in consultation with the Advisory Bodies as necessary, to include a cost estimate as well as an estimate of staff time required, for each activity to be funded through the World Heritage Centre\'s budget as part of each decision of the Committee; \n 8.  Reiterates  its previous request to the Director-General of UNESCO to urgently fill the post of Deputy Director of Management in the World Heritage Centre; \n 9.  Approves  a total World Heritage Fund budget of USD 6.672.357 for the 2010-2011 biennial exercise and [the corresponding breakdown annexed in Tables 1 to 3]; \n 10.  Approves  the creation of a new budget line to contend effectively with the risks of exchange rate fluctuation; \n 11.  Authorizes  the Director of the World Heritage Centre to proceed,  in liaison with the UNESCO services,  with adjustments of up to a maximum of 10% of the original amounts allocated to the different headings, where necessary for improved efficiency and to allow the execution of the Committee\'s decisions [Australia]; \n 12.  Also requests  the World Heritage Centre to report on the budgetary execution, including all funding sources, at each Committee session in the framework of its annual report; \n 13.  Strongly urges  the General Conference and the Executive Board of UNESCO to significantly increase the level of core funding to the World Heritage Centre so that adequate funding is available to support the staff necessary to enable the World Heritage Centre to effectively meet the increasing needs of this very successful and high profile  Convention ; \n 14.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre to develop a range of options, for consideration by all States Parties to the  World Heritage Convention , for equitable additional voluntary contributions to the Fund with a view to increase activities under the  World Heritage Convention , including the possibility of using a percentage of the current contributions taking into account the number of properties inscribed on the World Heritage List.