The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-09/33.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  30 COM 7B.89  and  31 COM 7B.116 , adopted at its 30th (Vilnius, 2006) and 31st (Christchurch, 2007) sessions respectively, and the detailed recommendations made by the joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS/IUCN reactive monitoring mission of March 2006, \n 3.  Takes note  of the progress made in the implementation of the short-term Action Plan 2007-2009, in particular in the restoration and gradual opening of the palaces and parks; \n 4.  Notes with serious concern  the uninterrupted urban encroachment both on the territory of the property and its buffer zone and beyond it, as well as the pressure caused by increased visitation; \n 5.  Expresses its concern  about the continuing lack of coordination mechanisms involving all relevant stakeholders responsible for the management of the property and its buffer zone; \n 6.  Strongly encourages  the State Party to consider establishing a Steering Committee for the property in order to enhance coordination and coherent decision-making among all relevant stakeholders on the territory of the property and its buffer zone; \n 7.  Urge s the State Party to amplify its efforts, to set up a comprehensive management plan for the property clearly defining the roles of all relevant stakeholders, the conservation measures and development objectives for the property as well as the appropriate financial resources; \n 8.  Further encourages  the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value for the property, as a sound basis for its management; \n 9.  Requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS/IUCN reactive monitoring mission to the property to assess the overall state of conservation of the property; \n 10.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010.