The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.&nbsp;&nbsp;  Having examined  Documents WHC-12/36.COM/8B and WHC-12/36.COM/INF.8B1 ,   \n 2.&nbsp;&nbsp;  Inscribes  the  Bassari Country: Bassari, Fula and Bedik Cultural Landscapes, Senegal,  on the World Heritage List on the basis of  criteria   (iii),   (v)  and  (vi) ; \n 3.&nbsp;&nbsp;  Adopts  the following Statement of Outstanding Universal Value: \n  Brief synthesis  \n The cultural landscape of Bassari is located in south-eastern Senegal, close to the Mali and Guinean borders, in a hilly territory, formed by the northern foothills of the Fouta Djallon Massif. Two distinct geographic environments feature the region: the alluvial plain and the peneplain to the north and the mountains to the south. The former exhibit a mosaic of cultivated patches, pastures, bushes, the latter, relatively high and sheer, are dotted with several natural caves and have offered an environment particularly advantageous for the establishment of different cultural clusters and their defence. Archaeological evidences of early human occupation abound in the area. The property comprises three different geo-cultural areas: the Bassari &ndash; Sal&eacute;mata, the Bedik &ndash; Bandafassi and the Fula &ndash; Dind&eacute;fello areas, each exhibiting specific morphological and cultural traits. In this barely accessible region, but rich in natural resources and biodiversity, the Bassari, Fula and Bedik peoples settled and developed specific cultures, symbiotic with the surrounding natural environment. Until the last century, inhabited villages were grouped and located on rises, so as to control the plains, and consisted of round thatched huts congregated around a central space. Today dispersion and impermanence are the main traits of the Bassari settlements, the populations choosing to live close to the fields. Ancient villages are nowadays used only periodically for ritual ceremonies or festivals. \n The property and its associated cultural expressions bear outstanding witness to the cultural specificity and interaction between the Bassari/Beliyan, Bedik, and Fula people in agro-pastoral, social, ritual and spiritual practices, and represent an outstanding, original response to natural environmental constraints and anthropic pressures, so as to use wisely the limited resources of the area. \n  Criterion (iii):  The physical layout of the Bassari Cultural landscape bears an exceptional witness to the complex interactions among environmental factors, land-use practices, social rules, beliefs that altogether have concurred to shape a peculiar and remarkably preserved cultural landscape that outstandingly reflects the ability of make a respectful and sustainable use of the resources of the region. \n  Criterion (v):  The Bassari cultural landscape bears witness to peculiar uses of the land, including crop rotation and manuring, communal sowing, weeding and harvesting and commuting practices imposed by traditional agricultural systems and by the relative scarcity of resources, thus representing an outstanding example of human interaction with a vulnerable environment. \n  Criterion (vi):  The Pays Bassari as well as the sacred dimension that Bassari, Fula and Bedik people attach to it bear exceptional, tangible witness to the intertwined complex of practices, social rules, rites and beliefs that have helped the Bassari regulate the interaction between men and their living environment and have produced a cultural landscape shaped by and imbued with cultural traditions and spiritual meanings that persist in a lively dynamic of transmission. \n  Integrity   \n The serial property includes all elements necessary to make manifest its proposed Outstanding Universal Value. Each area contributes to make evident and to reinforce the value of the whole system and the profound cultural connections between humans and nature. Their individual and overall sizes are also convenient to represent adequately the cultural features and processes conveying the Outstanding Universal Value of the property. In the long term, the sustenance of the integrity of the property needs that measures be set up to safeguard the Bassari culture from the disrupting impact of an excessive exposure to alien cultural models. \n  Authenticity  \n The landscapes and their land-use and settlement pattern, along with the traditional architecture, the sacred forests, and the sanctuaries bear credible witness to a complex socio-economic cultural system in which peculiar agricultural and social practices, rituals, beliefs and traditional education have contributed to make possible and durable the human settlement through the respectful and sustainable use of the scarce resources of the region. \n  Protection and management requirements  \n The Bassari cultural landscape is covered by specific layers of formal protection according to the law in force. Forms of traditional protection and management continue to be implemented, complemented by the action of several national and local institutional bodies and NGOs. Overall the combination of legal, institutional and traditional protective measures is adequate to ensure the safeguard of the Outstanding Universal Value of the property. However its sustenance in the long term requires a strong coordination among all authorities, organisations and communities responsible at different levels for the protection and management of the Bassari region within a comprehensive management strategy that need to integrate all plans, measures and projects into one management system/plan. The joint management authority must be confirmed in its structures as well as in its means. Specific attention must also be paid to the control of economic development projects in the region, tourism within the property and potential mining or forestry projects in buffer zones. A strategy for the conservation of the property and its attributes must be attached to the Management Plan. \n 4. &nbsp; Recommends  that the State Party give consideration to the following: \n a)&nbsp;&nbsp; Putting in place strict measures to effectively counteract fire, arson, poaching, illicit logging and traffic of cultural items, \n b)&nbsp;&nbsp; Providing a map showing the boundaries of the areas included under the protection of the Ministerial decree N. 004510, \n c)&nbsp;&nbsp; Developing and providing a complete cartography at the appropriate scale including inventories of heritage resources related to the attributes of the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, for conservation and monitoring purposes, \n d)&nbsp;&nbsp; Developing a strategy for conservation based on all different projects and integrating it in the management plan, \n e)&nbsp;&nbsp; Elaborating a solution in the medium term for the water supply of the villages, especially those located on the Bandafassi and Ethiolo Plateaux; so as to improve the quality of life of the population and help them to continue their lives within the property, \n f)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Formalising the management structure, the role of each party and body and their tasks through a Memorandum of Understanding, \n g)&nbsp;&nbsp; Sustaining and facilitating the traditional conservation actions which have allowed the survival of the property, \n h)&nbsp;&nbsp; Exploring the development of cultural banks so as to eradicate illicit trafficking of cultural objects, \n i)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Reinforcing the monitoring system on the basis of a cartographic inventory and implementing it as soon as possible.