The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/10C , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 10A  adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Having reviewed  the application of the thematic studies and their contribution to the global strategy based on the underrepresented categories developed by the advisory bodies, \n 4.  Requests  the Advisory Bodies, in cooperation with the World Heritage Centre, to incorporate into Annex III of the  Operational Guidelines  references to the thematic studies included in document  WHC-09/33.COM/10C ; \n 5.  Welcomes  the proposed thematic studies programmes of the Advisory Bodies; \n 6.  Also welcomes  the proposal for a new IUCN thematic study on marine World Heritage in the \'Draft Bahrain Action Plan for Marine World Heritage\' and  commends  the State Party of Bahrain, IUCN and the World Heritage Centre for their efforts in developing the Draft Action Plan; and  recognizes  the contributions from partners and donors including the State Party of Belgium; \n 7.  Notes  the intention of IUCN to present the completed thematic study on marine World Heritage to the 35th session of the Committee in 2011;  invites  States Parties to the  Convention  to provide comments to IUCN on the \'Draft Bahrain Action Plan for Marine World Heritage\' by  1 December 2009 , and  also notes  that this thematic study should strengthen the contribution of the  World Heritage Convention  towards the commitments arising from the Convention on Biological Diversity and the World Summit on Sustainable Development for increasing the global extent of marine protected areas; \n 8.  Further notes  that this thematic study will help to reinforce the protected marine areas which are currently on the Tentative List of the States Parties; \n 9.  Invites  States Parties to the  Convention  to consider providing extra-budgetary assistance to support the thematic studies programmes of the Advisory Bodies as identified above and by the Committee at previous sessions, and to also identify opportunities to support translation of completed studies; \n 10.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre with the Advisory Bodies to present a report on the thematic studies and their continuing prioritization at the 35th session of the Committee in 2011.