The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/12C,    \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 10  adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), Decision  33 COM 14A.2  adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009),  34 COM 12  adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010) and Resolution  17 GA 9  adopted at the 17th General Assembly of States Parties (UNESCO Headquarters, 2009); \n 3.  Taking into consideration  the findings and recommendations of the evaluation of the Global Strategy for a Representative, Balanced and Credible World Heritage List (Final report of the Audit of the Global Strategy and the PACT initiative, Document WHC-11/35.COM/INF.9A), \n 4.  Welcomes  all the actions undertaken to improve the processes and practices prior to consideration by the World Heritage Committee of a nomination (the \'upstream processes\') and  expresses its appreciation  to States Parties for their collaboration in the selection of the proposed pilot projects and to the Advisory Bodies and the World Heritage Centre that prepared the feasibility studies; \n 5.  Takes note  of the pilot projects that have been chosen to implement this experimental approach and  requests  the States Parties concerned to nominate focal points for this purpose; \n 6.  Requests  the States Parties concerned to fully collaborate, providing technical support and seek funding to implement the required actions,  encourages  them to seek assistance from the World Heritage Fund, if necessary and  calls upon  States Parties and the international community to provide technical and financial support to assist the States Parties concerned in the implementation of their pilot projects; \n 7.  Decides  that priority should be given to Preparatory Assistance requests submitted by concerned States Parties who do not have the necessary financial means; \n 8.  Invites  the Director General to use existing extra-budgetary funds to support the upstream processes and to seek new extra-budgetary funds for this purpose; \n 9.  Also requests  States Parties whose heritage is already well represented on the World Heritage List to consider linking each of their nominations with a nomination presented by a State Party whose heritage is un-represented or under-represented as foreseen in paragraph 59c of the  Operational Guidelines , in the framework of the Global Strategy; \n 10.  Further requests  the Advisory Bodies to work with the States Parties concerned to place the work of the upstream process within the larger context of national capacity building, and where possible, link this work to the development of national capacity-building strategies foreseen within the World Heritage Capacity-Building Strategy; \n 11.  Requests furthermore  the Advisory Bodies and the World Heritage Centre to report on the progress in implementing the pilot projects for consideration of the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012.