The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7B , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.52 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec   City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes with satisfaction  that the State Party has confirmed that prospecting/mining activities are not allowed within the property and its buffer zone, in line with the "No-go" commitment of the International Council for Minerals and Metals (ICMM) in World Heritage properties (2003); \n 4.  Also notes  the actions implemented by the State Party to address the specific prospecting permit at the property and  urges  the State Party to expedite the process for the final cancellation of this permit as soon as possible and inform the World Heritage Centre; \n 5.  Takes note  of the results of the 2009 joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission,  endorses  its recommendations and  requests  the State Party to implement them, particularly in respect to presenting the property and addressing potential threats deried from overgrazing, desertification and plant poaching; \n 6.  Welcomes  the State Party\'s decision not to reduce the buffer zone and  invites  the State Party to probe the possibility of a potential extension into the Richtersveld National Park to strengthen the sustainability of the Outstanding Universal Value of the cultural landscape, in line with Decision  31 COM 8B.20 , paragraph 4a, at the time of inscription; \n 7.  Encourages  the State Party to carry out an assessment of the impact of mining activities in areas close to the buffer zone on the Outstanding Universal Value and integrity of the property and to identify measures to comprehensively address them; \n 8.  Requests  the State Party to provide three printed and electronic copies of the revised management plan, including measures to address Paragraph 7 above, for review by the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to keep the World Heritage Centre informed on the state of conservation of the property and on the progress made in the implementation of the above recommendations.