The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-09/33.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.51 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes  the work carried out to sensitise owners and users to the value of their heritage properties and the need for conservation, and encourages the State Party to continue these efforts; \n 4.  Also notes  the completion of the first phase of the rehabilitation of San Sebastian Fortress and notes the considerable extra work that will be needed to deal with the additional damage caused by Cyclone Jokwe; \n 5.  Further notes  the progress made in relation to training staff and the increased State budget allocation for the conservation work; and in obtaining funding for the conservation and management plans and  emphasizes  the need for these to be properly coordinated so as to provide an integrated strategy and avoid duplication; \n 6.  Reaffirms its great concern  that the Island of Mozambique continues to be threatened by serious degradation of its historical monuments and urban structure and is in danger of losing part of its authenticity; and  considers  that there needs to be efforts to halt the collapse of buildings while an overall management plan and approach are being developed; \n 7.  Expresses it concern  at the lack of sewage and water systems, particularly in Macuti town, and the lack of appropriate urban planning, rehabilitation and improvement of traditional Macuti houses, including the development of a sustainable way forward, and  urges  the State Party to work towards a sustainable development plan for Macuti town; \n 8.  Encourages  the State Party to continue implementing the Emergency action plan and to establish a stronger legal framework for the protection of the heritage of the Island of Mozambique, including the underwater heritage; \n 9.  Also encourages  the State Party to provide the responsible authority with additional technical staff and necessary equipment required; \n 10.  Further encourages  the State Party to delineate a buffer zone for the property in relation to the underwater heritage and to submit this as a minor modification; \n 11.  Requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS/ICCROM reactive monitoring mission, in order to assess the progress made in implementing the Emergency action plan as well as the steps taken to implement the recommendations set out by the mission; \n 12.  Also request  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, including on progress made with implementing the emergency action plan, in particular the points raised above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010,  with a view to considering, in the absence of substantial progress, the possible inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger.