The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7A.5 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Notes with satisfaction  the substantial progress made in evacuating the armed groups from the property, increasing patrol coverage and closing down illegal mining areas; \n 4.  Expresses its hope  that necessary security conditions can now be progressively created to enable the managers of the property to progress in the implementation of the corrective measures; \n 5.  Welcomes  the approval of the general management plan and the June 2010 study to assess the different options to address the problem of the villages included in the lowland sector of the park; \n 6.  Notes with concern  that no progress was made in the resolution of the illegal occupation of the corridor and the granting of mining concessions, and  urges  the State Party to address these issues in line with the commitments made by the Prime Minister in the Kinshasa Declaration;    \n 7.  Requests  the State Party to continue to implement the corrective measures as updated by the joint World Heritage Centre/ IUCN reactive monitoring mission in 2009, to rehabilitate the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 8.  Reiterates its request  that the State Party conduct as soon as possible an inventory of species retained as indicators for the Desired state of conservation for removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, to determine the current state of the biodiversity in the property and to establish the base reference to enable monitoring of the restoration of these values and establish a timeline for removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, including an update on the state of mining concessions granted in the property, progress achieved in the resolution of illegal occupation of the corridor, as well as progress in the accomplishment of the corrective measures, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 10.  Decides  to continue to apply the Reinforced monitoring mechanism; \n 11.   Also decides    to retain Kahuzi-Biega National Park (Democratic Republic of the Congo) on the List of World Heritage in Danger .