The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7A.Add , \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  31 COM 7A.1  and  32 COM 7A.1 , adopted at its 31st (Christchurch, 2007) and 32nd (Quebec City, 2008) sessions respectively, \n 3.  Regrets  that the State Party has not submitted a report on the state of conservation of the property as requested by the World Heritage Committee at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008); \n 4.  Expresses its deep concern  with regard to the conclusions of the joint World Heritage Centre/IUCN mission of April 2009 that noted a high risk of loosing the Outstanding Universal Value of the property if, in the short-term, urgent corrective measures are not taken to limit the major pressures affecting its integrity;&nbsp; \n 5.  Urges  the State Party to develop in cooperation with the World Heritage Centre, IUCN and other stakeholders a new short-term (3 years) emergency plan to restore the integrity of the property, taking into account the following corrective measures: \n a) Restructuring of the management of the Park, towards a simple and efficient organization dedicated specifically to the property, \n b) Strengthening of supervisory staff to ensure the main management tasks (planning, surveillance, ecological monitoring, administration, logistics), \n c) Increasing the number and training of ground staff mainly dedicated to surveillance during this transition period, and strengthened in the beginning by support from the armed forces, \n d) Functional zoning of the Park with a priority intervention zone to conserve to the maximum the components determining the Outstanding Universal Value of the Park (ecosystems and wildlife), \n e) An action plan targeting the restoration of security and tranquillity in this priority zone, \n f) A provisional budget adapted to these priorities, limited to the necessary, to already begin at this stage a reflection on management sustainability, \n g) A plan to emerge from the crisis to be undertaken in parallel, through consultation, with the different protagonists, specifically those from Chad and Sudan; \n 6.  Encourages  the State Party to request assistance from the World Heritage Fund to organize a workshop to prepare this emergency plan; \n 7.  Requests  the State Party to ensure commitment at the highest level for the implementation of the emergency plan; \n 8.  Calls upon  the State Party as well as the States Parties of Chad and Sudan, to strengthen their transboundary cooperation to control the threats, particularly from armed poaching and other illegal exploitation of natural resources; \n 9.  Invites  donors as well as the international community at large to mobilise the necessary financial and technical resources for the implementation of the emergency plan to restore the intrinsic characteristics of the property, as well as its integrity;&nbsp; &nbsp; \n 10.  Also requests  the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value and a proposal for the desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, by  1 February 2010,  for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th   session in 2011; \n 11.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, in particular on the development and implementation of the emergency plan as well as the implementation of the other recommendations of the 2009 mission, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 12.  Decides  to apply the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism for one year to monitor the state of conservation of the property and further requests the World Heritage Centre to report on the progress achieved in the preparation and implementation of the emergency plan based on information provided by the State Party and the Advisory Bodies; \n 13.  Invites  the Director-General of UNESCO and the Chairperson of the World Heritage Committee to convene a meeting with the authorities of the Central African Republic, Sudan and Chad, together with representatives of the African Union and appropriate sub-regional organizations and the President of IUCN, to discuss progress in addressing the deteriorating state of conservation of the property, with the assistance of the World Heritage Fund and other funds as may be available; \n   14.   Also decides  to retain Manovo-Gounda St. Floris National Park (Central African Republic) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.