The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-09/33.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.117 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes  the results of the joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to the Edinburgh Old and New Towns World Heritage property of November 2008 and the State Party\'s response; \n 4.  Urges  the State Party to take into account the recommendations by the joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission, specifically addressing improvements for the Caltongate and Haymarket development; and  requests  that the mission\'s findings on the Haymarket development are made available to the public enquiry; \n 5.  Welcomes  that the St James Centre project improves the integrity of the property with the demolition of a building block impacting on the values and integrity of the property; \n 6.  Also welcomes  the skyline study as an important tool in future development and planning of the site to protect important views in compliance with Paragraph 104 of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 7.  Also requests  the State Party to establish a declared buffer zone for the Edinburgh Old and New Towns World Heritage property in accordance with Paragraph 103 of the  Operational Guidelines , in which height restrictions are established on the basis of key views and vistas from within and from outside across the property; \n 8.  Further requests  the State Party to establish clear policies in relation to height controls within the property on the basis of key views and vistas from within and outside the property; \n 9.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to raise awareness among potential developers and stakeholders of the Outstanding Universal Value of the property and the meaning of this for development projects within the property and its buffer zone; \n 10.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011 , a report on the state of conservation of the property taking into account the recommendations of the joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to the property, and on progress with the review of the management plan and establishment of the buffer zone, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.