The World Heritage Committee,   1.  Noting  the agreement of the State Party to a modification of the original name,   2.  Inscribes  the  Cape Floral Region Protected Areas, South Africa,  on the World Heritage List on the basis of natural criteria (ii) and (iv):    Criterion (ii):  The Cape Floral Region is considered of outstanding universal value for representing ongoing ecological and biological processes associated with the evolution of the unique Fynbos biome. These processes are represented generally within the Cape Floral Region and captured in the eight protected areas. Of particular scientific interest are the plant reproductive strategies including the adaptive responses to fire of the flora and the patterns of seed dispersal by insects. The pollination biology and nutrient cycling are other distinctive ecological processes found in the site. The Cape Floral Region forms a centre of active speciation where interesting patterns of endemism and adaptive radiation are found in the flora.    Criterion (iv):  The Cape Floral Region is one of the richest areas for plants than for any similar sized area in the world. The number of species per genus within the region (9:1) and per family (52) are among the highest given for various species-rich regions in the world. The species density in the Cape Floral Region is also amongst the highest in the world. It displays the highest levels of Committee (Suzhou, 2004) endemism at 31.9 % and it has been identified as one of the world\xe2\x80\x99s 18 biodiversity hot spots.   3.  Commends  the State Party for the progress made in preparing the management plans for the various clusters;   4.  Further commends  the State Party for their innovative work under CAPE (Cape Action for People &amp; the Environment) and other projects to build public support for conservation of the area;   5.  Encourages  the State Party to carefully consider developing innovative socioeconomic programmes for poverty alleviation as well as public education and outreach;   6.  Further encourages  the State Party to consider re-nominating the property in the future as a cultural landscape, associated with the early occupation of the region by humans and the iconic value of Table Mountain.