The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Taking note  of the information provided by the World Heritage Centre in  WHC-03/27.COM/13  and  WHC-03/27.COM/INF.13  on the initiative of five Andean States Parties to collaborate in the process of nominating the Qhapac Nan - Camino Inca road system for inscription on the World Heritage List,;  2.  Considering  the results of the consultation meeting with the Permanent Delegations to UNESCO (29th January 2003 at UNESCO Headquarters), and the documents adopted at the first sub-regional technical meeting held in Lima, Peru, on 1 and 2 April 2003,\xc2\xa0   3.  Welcoming  the wishdesire of the States Parties to develop multi-national co-operation for a joint World Heritage nomination and to respond to priorities established by the World Heritage Committee in the context of the Global Strategy for a Representative World Heritage List and the Committee\'s  Budapest Declaration ,;  4.  Encourages  the States Parties concerned to include in their Tentative Lists properties related to Qhapac Nan - Camino Inca situated on their territories;  5.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre to establish a consultation mechanism with the Permanent Delegations of the States Parties concerned. This should ensure the proper coordination and follow-up of actions and international assistance on the sub-regional level, and national level as appropriate, that will be required to implement successfully the process of nomination of the Qhapac Nan - Camino Inca for inscription on the World Heritage List;  6.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre, in consultation and coordination with the Permanent Delegations of the States Parties concerned and in co-operation with the relevant UNESCO offices in the region, to ensure the proper coordination of the World Heritage inscription initiative with other relevant programmes, projects and activities, such as the Inter-Development Bank (IDB) Technical Co-operation project and the IUCN protected areas project;  7.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies to collaborate with the States Parties concerned in the implementation of the recommendations of the first sub-regional technical meeting held in Lima, Peru, and in seeking extra-budgetary contributions from relevant donor and financing institutions;  8.  Authorizes  the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies to organize a scientific meeting on the Qhapac Nan - Camino Inca as recommended by the delegates at the meeting in Lima in April 2003. This meeting should take place in Peru in the second half of 2003;  9.  Requests  that the World Heritage Centre inform the World Heritage Committee at its 28th session in 2004 on the progress made in the implementation of this initiative.