The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7A.Add , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7A.23 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes with satisfaction  the progress made by the State Party in the overall preservation and conservation of elements of the World Heritage property, notably by adopting the master plans and carrying out conservation works at the two sites of the Lahore Fort and Shalamar Gardens; \n 4.  Notes however  that some of the corrective measures agreed by the World Heritage Committee remain to be implemented, in order to achieve the desired state of conservation for the property; \n 5.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, and to submit it to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2010 , for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 6.  Also reiterates its request  to the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Committee a formal request for the modification of the boundaries of the property, according to the provision of paragraphs 163-165 of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 7.  Urges  the State Party to continue its efforts to achieve the desired state of conservation defined by the World Heritage Committee for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, and define a clear timeframe for the implementation of the relevant corrective measures; \n 8.  Encourages  the State Party to give consideration to the recommendations of the joint UNESCO/ICOMOS mission of February 2009, and particularly to strengthen the human resources for the conservation and management of the World Heritage property, notably through appropriate capacity building programmes, possibly with International Assistance under the World Heritage Fund; \n 9.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010,  a report on the progress made in the implementation of the corrective measures, including a clear timeframe, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 10.   Decides  to retain the Fort and Shalamar Gardens in Lahore (Pakistan) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.