The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7A.13 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Acknowledges and commends  the progress made by the State Party on the implementation of some of the corrective measures adopted by the World Heritage Committee at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007) and included in the Action Plan produced in response to the Presidential Decree No. 270; \n 4.  Notes with concern  the continued threats to the Outstanding Universal Value and integrity of the property, arising from very rapid growth of land based tourism and from invasive alien species; \n 5.  Invites  the State Party to continue to strengthen its efforts on the implementation of all of the corrective measures established for the property; \n 6.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and Advisory Bodies, to develop a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value and a proposal for the desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010. The State Party is encouraged, if it wishes to do so, to prepare and submit an International Assistant request to support this process; \n 7.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , a comprehensive report on the state of conservation of the property, with particular emphasis on the identified corrective measures in its 15 point Action Plan and on its response to land based visitation trends, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010. The report should also address how corrective measures are contributing to addressing the requirements associated to the anticipated Statement of Outstanding Universal Value and the anticipated desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger; \n 8.  Requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ IUCN reactive monitoring mission to assess progress made on the implementation of the decisions of the Committee; \n 9.   Decides  to retain the Gal&aacute;pagos Islands (Ecuador) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.