The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-09/33.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.104 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Appreciating  the continuing efforts by the Kizhi Museum Reserve to improve maintenance, monitoring and presentation of the World Heritage property, \n 4.  Regrets  that the State Party has not implemented any requested activities and  strongly urges  the State Party to establish a Special State Group in charge to coordinate the implementation of all World Heritage Committee\'s decisions concerning this property; \n 5.  Expresses its deep concern  over the continuing deterioration of the structural fabric of the Church of the Transfiguration; \n 6.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to progress on all issues mentioned over a decade including the following documents: \n a) Detailed report on the main restoration works, \n b) Three copies of the draft integrated management plan for Kizhi Pogost including a tourism strategy (in particular with an accent on any eventual threat to the property from the fluvial tourism), risk preparedness measures, \n c) Revised and approved documents concerning protected areas of the Kizhi Museum Reserve including the boundaries of the property and its buffer zone; \n 7.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010,  with a progress report on the implementation of the above mentioned activities, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, a desired state of conservation, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, a set of corrective measures, as well as a timeframe for their implementation and to submit them to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010,  with a view to considering in the absence of substantial progress the inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger ; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to the Kizhi Museum Reserve to assess the state of conservation of the property.