The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7B.14 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Notes with appreciation  the State Party\'s efforts to implement the World Heritage Committee\'s recommendations adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), and  encourages  the State Party to continue and further intensify these efforts; \n 4.  Expresses its utmost concern  that road development plans and agricultural encroachment continue to pose a major threat to the property, and  considers  that these threats represent both a potential and ascertained danger to its Outstanding Universal Value in line with Paragraph 180 of the Operational Guidelines, as confirmed by three monitoring missions since 2006; \n 5.  Requests  the State Party to conduct a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) of the cumulative effects of all road development plans in the Bukit Barisan mountain range area, where the serial property is located, in order to identify transport options for the region that do not adversely impact the property\'s Outstanding Universal Value, including improved maintenance of existing legal roads, and to submit this assessment to the World Heritage Centre for review; \n 6.   Decides    to inscribe the Tropical Rainforest Heritage of Sumatra (Indonesia) on the List of World Heritage in Danger;  \n 7.  Takes note  that a proposed set of correctives measures is being developed following the 2011 World Heritage Centre/IUCN joint reactive monitoring mission, in collaboration with the State Party, taking account of the corrective measures already agreed for the property at the 34th session of the World Heritage Committee; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to provide to the World Heritage Centre additional information on the coal mining proposal adjacent to Gunung Leuser National Park, including a map showing its exact location and an Environmental Impact Assessment of its likely impacts on the property\'s Outstanding Universal Value, in line with Paragraph 172 of the Operational Guidelines; \n 9.  Invites  the State Party to apply for International Assistance in order to develop an action plan that would enable the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, and calls upon the World Heritage Centre and IUCN to provide technical support to the development of this action plan; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and IUCN, a proposal for the Desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 11.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, including confirmation that all road development proposals within the property have been halted, and on the progress achieved in addressing the other points raised above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012.