The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.107  adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Notes  the reduction in demolition permits in the so-called Jewish quarter; \n 4.  Acknowledges  the information provided by the State Party on progress being made regarding the \'Street of Culture\' initiative that aims to act as a model for sustainable development of this area; \n 5.  Also notes with extreme concern  the major development proposal in the buffer zone in Pest adjacent to the property boundary that would result in the demolition of one side of B&eacute;csi and  urges  the State Party to use all means necessary to halt this demolition; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to keep the World Heritage Centre informed regarding ongoing developments planned for B&eacute;csi Street and for Heroes Square and that procedures for the Heritage Impact Assessments on Outstanding Universal Value are followed for all steps of these development proposals; \n 7.  Recognises  the work by the State Party to enable and enact a new World Heritage Bill by the beginning of 2012 and  also requests  that a copy of the document be sent to the World Heritage Centre on its promulgation; \n 8.  Encourages  the State Party to finalise the revision of the property management plan and its management organisation as soon as possible, following the promulgation of the new Bill; \n 9.  Welcomes  the in-principle decision reached at a national level for the incorporation of Margit Island into the property buffer zone and  also urges  the State Party to bring this initiative into action through the formal procedures of the Committee; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to assess progress in the implementation of all necessary measures in compliance with the World Heritage Committee\'s decisions, prior to its 37th session in 2013; \n 11.  Requests moreover  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013 , a report on the state of conservation of the property and on the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013.