The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.&nbsp;&nbsp; Having examined  Documents WHC-12/36.COM/8B and WHC-12/36.COM/INF.8B2 ,  \n 2. &nbsp; Inscribes  the  Sangha Trinational,   Cameroon, Central African Republic and Congo , on the World Heritage List under  criteria   (ix)  and  (x) ; \n 3.&nbsp;&nbsp; Adopts  the following Statement of Outstanding Universal Value: \n  Brief synthesis  \n Sangha Trinational (TNS) is a transboundary conservation complex in the North-western Congo Basin where Cameroon, the Central African Republic and the Republic of Congo meet. TNS encompasses three contiguous national parks totalling a legally defined area of 746,309 hectares. These are Lob&eacute;k&eacute; National Park in Cameroon, Dzanga-Ndoki National Park in the Central African Republic and Nouabal&eacute;-Ndoki National Park in the Republic of Congo. Dzanga-Ndoki National Park is comprised of two distinct units. The parks are embedded in a much larger forest landscape, sometimes referred to as the TNS Landscape. A buffer zone of 1,787,950 hectares has been established in recognition of the importance of the broader landscape and its inhabitants for the future of the property. The buffer zone inlcudes Dzanga-Sanga Forest Reserve in the Central African Republic, which connects the two units of Dzanga-Ndoki National Park. \n Natural values and features include the ongoing ecological and evolutionary processes in a mostly intact forest landscape at a very large scale. Numerous and diverse habitats such as tropical forests comprised of deciduous and evergreen species, a great diversity of wetland types, including swamp forests and periodically flooded forests and many types of forest clearings of major conservation importance continue to be connected at a landscape level. This mosaic of ecosystems harbours viable populations of complete faunal and floral assemblages, including top predators and rare and endangered species, such as Forest Elephants, Gorillas, Chimpanzees, and several antelope species, such as the Sitatunga and the emblematic Bongo. \n  Criterion (ix):  The property is characterised by its large size, further supported by the very large buffer zone, minimal disturbance over long periods and intactness thereby enabling the continuation of ecological and evolutionary processes at a huge scale. This includes the continuous presence of viable populations and natural densities of wildlife, including top predators and large mammals which are often affected by hunting and poaching elsewhere. There is a fully connected mosaic of very diverse habitats, including numerous types of ecologically remarkable forest clearings attracting major wildlife aggregations and countless plant species otherwise not found in the forest landscape. Unlike many other forest protected areas, the property is not a remaining fragment but continues to be part of a much larger intact and landscape with good conservation prospects. This is increasingly rare and significant at a global scale. \n  Criterion (x):  The property represents a wide spectrum of the species-rich humid tropical forests in Central Africa&rsquo;s Congo Basin, and provides protection for a range of endangered species. The flora is enriched by species occurring exclusively in the many types of forest clearings. TNS protects a large number of tree species which are heavily commercially exploited elsewhere, such as the critically endangered Mukulungu. In addition to viable populations of forest elephants, significant populations of the critically endangered Western Lowland Gorilla and the endangered Chimpanzee occur both in and around the property, together with several endangered antelope species, such as the Sitatunga and the emblematic Bongo. \n  Integrity  \n The boundaries of the property coincide with the boundaries of three existing national parks thereby forming a large and contiguous protected area in the heart of the broader TNS Landscape. The entire property is surrounded by a large buffer zone in all three countries which responds to the intricate ecological linkages between the property and its surroundings. This approach provides an umbrella for land-use planning and for integrating the legitimate livelihood needs of local and indigenous communities with nature conservation within the broader TNS landscape. Logging and hunting is banned in the national parks. In addition, the remoteness of TNS adds a natural layer of protection from resource exploitation. It will be essential to ensure that the future activities in the buffer zones, including forest and wildlife management, tourism, agriculture and infrastructure are fully compatible with the conservation objectives for TNS so the surrounding landscape will satisfy the needs of local and indigenous communities while indeed serving as a &ldquo;buffer&rdquo; for the property. \n  Protection and management requirements  \n There is strong and committed joint management of the property bringing together all three States Parties, an indispensable permanent requirement. The three national parks that make up the property all have management and administrative staff provided by governments and if needed complemented through international support from non-governmental organizations, as well as multi-lateral and bi-lateral agencies. Management, law enforcement, research, monitoring and tourism all require coordination across the national boundaries. There is a Trinational Monitoring and Action Committee (Comit&eacute; Trinational de Suivi et d\'Action), bringing together the three countries at the ministerial level. A Trinational Monitoring Committee unites the three countries at the level of regional administrations. These mechanisms are effective in providing a joint protection and management approach to the property, and will need to be maintained and built upon. \n The rights and traditional livelihoods of local and indigenous peoples, such as the BaAkas, are a fundamental and increasingly recognised element in the management of the property. Whereas in Lob&eacute;k&eacute; National Park (Cameroon) there are use zones within the park, in the Central African Republic and the Republic of Congo, local resource use, including indigenous hunting and gathering, is not permitted in the protected areas thereby affecting local livelihoods and creating the potential for conflict. This illustrates the crucial importance of finding an overall balance between nature conservation and local resource use in the broader landscape. The significantly enlarged buffer zone presents an opportunity to better understand and integrate the livelihood needs but also the knowledge of local and indigenous communities under the umbrella of a living TNS landscape. The inscription on the World Heritage List presents a concrete opportunity for the States Parties to translate a range of different commitments of the States Parties regarding the rights of local and indigenous people into action on the ground. \n Maintaining the ecological values of the property will not only depend on law enforcement but eventually both on the standards of commercial resource extraction in the buffer zone and the acceptance and support of parks by the local and indigenous communities in the surrounding landscape. \n 4. &nbsp;&nbsp; Strongly commends  the three State Parties for their constructive joint response to Decision  35 COM 8B.4  of the World Heritage Committee, in particular as regards the consideration of a much larger landscape as a formal buffer zone for the property and the stronger acknowledgment of and reference to the need to effectively engage local and indigenous communities, in the management of the property; \n 5. &nbsp; Considers  that inscription of the property on the World Heritage List provides an opportunity to further enhance a number of protection and management arrangements for the property and its buffer zone, and therefore requests the State Parties to: \n a) &nbsp;Use the declaration of a large buffer zone surrounding the entire property as an opportunity to further develop an integrated landscape approach in line with commitments stated in the nomination, \n b) &nbsp;Increase further the involvement and representation of local and indigenous communities in the future conservation and management of the TNS landscape in recognition of the rich cultural heritage of the region, the legitimacy of their rights to maintain traditional resource use and their rich local knowledge, including through providing effective and enhanced mechanisms for consultation and collaboration, \n c) &nbsp;Further ensure and monitor socially and environmentally high performance standards of the logging and hunting concessions, \n d) &nbsp;Further harmonize objectives and guidelines for the various conservation initiatives and management planning, including tourism planning among the three State Parties; \n e) &nbsp;Further improve coordination between ministries and sectors to ensure adequate and consistent planning of land and resource use, and law enforcement in the buffer zone, \n f) &nbsp; Ensure adequate long-term funding support for the property, including through full support to the Trust Fund and to the retention of tourism revenues for conservation and community development purposes. \n 6. &nbsp; Expresses its strong appreciation  to the States Parties for their longstanding transboundary approach to conservation and management efforts of a shared landscape and the major and on-going international support that has been provided to support this work; \n 7. &nbsp; Requests  the States Parties to provide a report to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2014  on the progress in implementing the above recommendations, for possible consideration by the World Heritage Committee at its 38th session in 2014.