The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-12/36.COM/7A, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  35 COM 7A.6 , adopted at its 35th session (UNESCO, 2011), \n 3.  Notes with satisfaction  the progress in the implementation of the corrective measures but  requests  the State Party to provide a more detailed and quantitative report to enable the Committee to assess the reported progress; \n 4.  Regrets  that the persistence of pockets of armed groups continue to render difficult the\xc2\xa0 management of the property and especially the anti-poaching efforts, and that the lack of mapping equipment continues to cause important risks to the guards when on patrol; \n 5.  Recalls  the commitments undertaken by the Congolese Government in the Kinshasa Declaration of January 2011, notably to reinforce the operational capacities of the ICCN, and  also requests  that mapping equipment for surveillance activities be made available; \n 6.  Reiterates its concern  regarding the probable extinction of the Northern White Rhinoceros in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), and  considers  that, unless there is proof that the sub-species still survives in the DRC, the State Party should consider other options for the conservation of the animals remaining in Kenya in consultation with the African Rhino Specialist Group of the IUCN Species Survival Commission, with a view to the possible future reintroduction of the sub-species within the property, crossed or not with the southern white rhinoceros; \n 7.  Further requests  the State Party to continue its efforts to implement the corrective measures to rehabilitate the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 8.  Strongly urges  the State Party to urgently carry out a survey of the large mammal populations to quantify the impact of the corrective measures on the rehabilitation of the Outstanding Universal Value and  also requests  the State Party, based on the results and in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, to finalize the Desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger and to update the required timetable, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013; \n 9.  Finally requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2013,  a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property, including an update of progress accomplished in the implementation of the corrective measures, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013; \n 10.  Decides  to continue the application of the reinforced monitoring mechanism for the property; \n 11.   Also decides    to retain Garamba National Park (Democratic Republic of the Congo) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.\xc2\xa0