The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7B . Add , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7B.2 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Notes with concern  that while progress was made on certain issues, many of the recommendations of the 2007 mission are not yet fully implemented and in some cases, decisions were made against the recommendations; \n 4.  Also expresses its concern  that human pressure on the ecosystem, resulting from a growing resident population is leading to over grazing and increasing agricultural use of the land, and increasing tourism pressure is already affecting the integrity of the property and threatening its Outstanding Universal Value; \n 5.  Urges  the State Party to implement all the recommendations of the 2007 reactive monitoring mission, and in particular to: \n a) Implement all the recommendations of the Environmental Impact Assessment relating to vehicle congestion within the crater, in particular putting a clear maximum limit of 100 vehicles allowed in the crater per day, \n b) Develop an overall tourism strategy for the property to guide the public use of the property, prioritizing the quality of the tourism experience, not the quantity of visitors and tourism facilities, \n c) Implement as quickly as possible a census and scientific study of the carrying capacity within the conservation area, based on the needs of the Maasai population and the assessment of the ecological impact of the human populations on the ecology of the property; \n 6.  Also urges  the State Party to engage a dialogue between the Ngorongoro Crater Conservation Authority (NCAA), Maasai community leaders as well as other stakeholders, based on the results of the scientific study, to develop a joint strategy to address the issue of human population impact on the ecology of the property, including the issue of increasing agricultural use in the property; \n 7.  Requests  the State Party to ensure the active participation of resident communities in decision-making processes and develop benefit-sharing mechanisms to encourage a sense of ownership of, and responsibility for, the conservation and sustainable use of the property\'s natural resources; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, to develop a Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, for examination by the World Heritage Committee; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and on progress in the implementation of the recommendations of the 2007 and 2008 monitoring missions, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010.