The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  H  aving examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7B.63 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Notes  the findings of the reactive monitoring mission in regard to the physical state of conservation of the structures, archaeological remains, and mural paintings at the property; \n 4.  Requests  the State Party to develop an ongoing monitoring system to ensure the continued stability of these structures, archaeological remains, and mural paintings, and to refrain from planning or implementing restoration projects prior to obtaining more accurate information on deterioration mechanisms from the monitoring process; \n 5.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to put the 2007 Management Plan in operation as soon as possible, by reinforcing the management structure and staff at the property, by providing this staff with an executive summary in Arabic and by developing a detailed, costed revised action plan with clear timelines and responsibilities for implementation; \n 6.  Urges  the State Party to ensure that site staff and other stakeholders receive necessary capacity building in order to effectively implement the management plan; \n 7.  Also requests  the State Party to provide, in the framework of the Retrospective Inventory, detailed topographical maps of the five component parts of the property by  1 December 2011 ;   \n 8.  Further requests  the State Party to finalize the limits of the buffer zones and their associated planning controls as soon as possible, to ensure that pressure from tourism, urban and infrastructure development do not have a negative impact on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, and to submit a minor boundary modification by  1 February 2012  for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 9.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013 , an updated report on the state of conservation of the property and the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013.