The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  its Decision  34 COM 7B.18 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Notes  the State Party\'s statement that it is conducting an Environmental Impact Assessment for the expansion of Highway 304, and  expresses its concern  over reports that highway expansion works are already underway; \n 4.  Also expresses its concern  about reports of escalating threats to the property\'s Outstanding Universal Value from encroachment, the proposed Huay Samong Dam, cattle grazing, and ineffective management; \n 5.  Urges  the State Party to rapidly halt any ongoing encroachment and cattle grazing affecting the property, and  requests  that all construction work on the Huay Samong Dam be halted until the World Heritage Committee has had the opportunity to review a completed Environmental Impact Assessment and assess its potential impacts on the property\'s Outstanding Universal Value, in line with Paragraph 172 of the Operational Guidelines; \n 6.  Encourages  the State Party to consider submitting a boundary modification request to the World Heritage Committee for Thap Lan National Park in order to better address forest conservation and encroachment issues in this area; \n 7.  Also encourages  the State Party to revise the property\'s management approach, and to develop long-term management policies, as well as a comprehensive tourism management plan; \n 8.  Invites  the State Party to submit an International Assistance request to support this process, and  further encourages  the States Parties of Thailand and the United States of America to consider the sister-parks proposal as an opportunity to explore capacity-building initiatives; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/IUCN monitoring mission to the property prior to its 36th session in 2012, in order to assess the potential impacts of encroachment, the Huay Samong Dam, cattle grazing, and the expansion of Highway 304 on the property\'s Outstanding Universal Value, and to review its management and financial plans; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to   submit to the   World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property, including information on the status of the Highway 304 Environmental Impact Assessment and the Huay Samong Dam, the progress achieved in halting any large-scale encroachment and cattle grazing, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012.