The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.97 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Recognises  the efforts of the State Party to ensure the protection of the property and the progress being made in the drafting of the site management plan and  encourages  it to continue these efforts in cooperation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies; \n 4.  Requests  the State Party in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, to develop a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, for examination by the World Heritage Committee, as a further basis for the elaboration of the management plan; \n 5.  Urges  the State Party to continue ensuring that all current and pending restoration projects use appropriately specified traditional lime technologies, and building elements, consistent with those historically adopted; \n 6.  Also requests  the State Party to inform and seek views from the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, prior to decisions being taken, on any emerging proposals regarding the intention to rebuild the bus station and to construct a vehicular tunnel and bridge in the buffer zone; \n 7.  Deeply regrets  that the State Party has not respected the time schedule for dismantling the revolving theatre as laid out in Decision  33 COM 7B.97 , and that the use of the revolving theatre at its current location has been extended until 2015; \n 8.  Strongly urges  the State Party to speed up the process of dismantling the revolving theatre and rehabilitating the affected area, and  reiterates its request  to the State Party to submit the detailed project for the final location of the new theatre and an impact assessment on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, in conformity with the ICOMOS Guidance on Heritage Impact Assessments for World Heritage cultural properties; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013 , a report on the state of conservation of the property and the implementation of the requests above, including a detailed plan and schedule for the relocation of the revolving theatre and mitigation of all its negative impacts on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013,  with a view to considering, in the case of confirmation of the ascertained or potential danger to the Outstanding Universal Value, the possible inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger.