The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  decisions  33 COM 7A.24  and  34 COM 7A.26  adopted at its 33rd (Seville, 2009) and 34th (Brasilia, 2010) sessions respectively, \n 3.  Notes with satisfaction  the efforts of the State Party to address the threats that led to the inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger and  encourages  the State Party to continue its work on the implementation of the adopted corrective measures, in particular the implementation of a sustained programme for the conservation of the terraces, irrigation systems and watersheds and adoption of conservation policies at the national level; \n 4.  Takes note  of the results of the March 2011 joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission; \n 5.  Requests  the State Party to implement the mission\'s recommendations, in particular to: \n a) Secure the necessary human and financial resources to ensure the sustained implementation of the conservation and management plan through operational arrangements, \n b) Develop and implement community-based zoning and land-use plans which respond to traditional value systems, \n c) Develop a tourism management plan to encourage community-based tourism, \n d) Establish appropriate control procedures for infrastructure and development projects, such as Environmental and Heritage Impact Assessment procedures and definition and enforcement of guidelines for development, \n e) Implement the process to designate the World Heritage cluster sites as "environmentally critical areas"; \n 6.  Expresses its concern  about the potential gold mining exploration at one of the cluster sites and  strongly urges  the State Party to take all necessary measures to ensure the preservation of the Outstanding Universal Value and integrity of the property; \n 7.  Invites  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre all relevant documentation and technical proposals for the exploration projects and other potential developments at the property, for review by the Advisory Bodies and the World Heritage Centre before any commitments are made for their implementation, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the Operational Guidelines; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to finalize the definition of boundaries for the property components and their buffer zones, including the corresponding regulatory measures to control and regulate further development, and submit the adequate cartography to the World Heritage Centre for review by the Advisory Bodies; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , an updated report on the state of conservation of the property and the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 10.   Decides    to retain the Rice Terraces of the Philippine Cordilleras (Philippines) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.