The World Heritage Committee, \n \n  Having examined  Documents WHC-15/39.COM/8B and WHC-15/39.COM/INF.8B1 ,  \n  Inscribes   Rjukan-Notodden Industrial Heritage Site ,  Norway , on the World Heritage List on the basis of  criteria (ii)  and  (iv) ; \n  Adopts  the following Statement of Outstanding Universal Value:\n  Brief synthesis  \n  Located in a dramatic landscape of mountains, waterfalls and river valleys, the Rjukan-Notodden Industrial Heritage Site comprises a cluster of pioneering hydro-electric power plants, transmission lines, factories, transport systems and towns. The complex was established by the Norsk-Hydro company which brought together results of science and research from Europe and North America to produce hydroelectricity and manufacture artificial fertilizer from nitrogen in the air in response to the Western world\xe2\x80\x99s demand for increased agricultural production in the early 20th century. Rjukan and Notodden company towns incorporated social innovations in workforce provision influenced by international planning ideas which together with innovative transport solutions enabled supply of a new, globally significant product for the world-wide market.  \n   Criterion (ii):    Rjukan-Notodden Industrial Heritage Site manifests an exceptional combination of industrial themes and assets tied to the landscape, which exhibit an important exchange on technological development in the early 20th century.  \n   Criterion (iv):    The technological ensemble of Rjukan-Notodden comprising dams, tunnels, pipes, power plants, power lines, factory areas and equipment, the company towns, railway lines and ferry service, located in a landscape where the natural topography enabled hydroelectricity to be generated in the necessary large amounts stands out as an example of new global industry in the early 20th century.  \n  Integrity  \n  In general all important remaining physical structures and objects that are testimony to the industrial pioneering period of the production of artificial fertilizer for agriculture in Norway in the early 20th century are within the boundaries of the area which is of adequate size to ensure the complete representation of the features and processes which convey the property\'s significance. The physical fabric of the property and its significant features are generally in a good condition. The property is not suffering from adverse effects and neglect.  \n  Authenticity  \n  The property incorporates buildings, structures and remains which convey credibly and truthfully its Outstanding Universal Value as a pioneering industrial enterprise for the production of artificial fertilizer in the early 20th century.   \n  Protection and management requirements  \n  The property is protected under the Cultural Heritage Act 1978, amended 2009 and the Planning &amp; Building Act 2009, amended 2012. All specified items will be protected by the Cultural Heritage Act or specific heritage provisions of the Planning &amp; Building Act by June 2015. The buffer zone is protected under the Cultural Heritage Act and zoning controls pursuant to the Planning &amp; Building Act.  \n  A \xe2\x80\x98Declaration of Intent\xe2\x80\x99 has been signed by the State Party and relevant county council and municipalities undertaking to protect the Outstanding Universal Value and the buffer zone. A provisional World Heritage Council comprising representatives from the Directorate for Cultural Heritage, the county authority, municipalities and the Norwegian Industrial Workers Museum has been set up to deliver a management structure for the property. A World Heritage Coordinator with responsibility for the whole area will be appointed. The Management Plan 2014-2019 includes an Action Plan with goals and actions for conservation, strengthening of Outstanding Universal Value, competence building and research, information &amp; presentation, and visitor management and will include a risk preparedness strategy.   \n \n  Recommends  that the State Party give consideration to the following:\n \n Extending the Management Plan to include a risk preparedness strategy as proposed; \n Refining the Monitoring System to relate to the inventory/database.