The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 8D,  adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Notes with deep concern  the collapses that occurred at the property in November 2010 and  urges  the State Party to address the underlying conditions that have contributed to the collapses, as a matter of urgency; \n 4.  Also notes  the conclusions of the joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS advisory mission to the property that while the collapses in November 2010 did not compromise the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, nevertheless the underlying conditions could threaten the Outstanding Universal Value if they remain unaddressed in the short term; \n 5.  Deeply regrets  that neither the World Heritage Centre nor the mission were informed about the construction of a large concrete building north of the Porta di Nola at the Pompei portion of the property and  also urges  the State Party to provide the World Heritage Centre with detailed information on this project for review; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to inform the World Heritage Centre regularly and in due time about any building project planned in the vicinity of the property in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 7.  Also requests  the State Party to give priority to work programmes dealing with the backlog in conservation and management of the property and to: \n a) review the management plan to include a public use plan and risk management plan as well as provisions to regulate and control development at the vicinity of the property, \n b) ensure that there are adequate qualified staff and contractors for the restoration and maintenance of the property, \n c) develop and implement measures to monitor conditions and use of the property, including the updating of the Geographic Information System (GIS) for Pompei, \n d) design and install effective drainage systems, \n e) identify and secure the required technical and financial resources in order to carry out an effective programme of conservation and maintenance of the property; \n 8.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre a Statement of Outstanding Universal Value by  1 February 2012 ; \n 9.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission during 2012 in order to assess the progress achieved in implementing the measures outlined above; \n 10.  Finally requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013 , a report on the state of conservation of the property and on the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013,  with a view to considering, in the case of confirmation of ascertained or potential danger to the Outstanding Universal Value, the possible inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger  .