The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Documents WHC-11/35.COM/10C and WHC-11/35.COM/INF.10C, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 10A  adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Takes note  of the progress accomplished in the follow-up of the second cycle of Periodic Reporting in the Arab States; \n 4.  Commends  the States Parties of the Arab Region for their commitment and  thanks  especially all focal points for their effective participation and involvement; \n 5.  Notes with satisfaction  the increased concern for natural heritage issues and  requests  the States Parties to designate a focal point for nature to stand by and work in close liaison with the focal point for culture; \n 6.  Approves  the Regional Programme prepared by the focal points of the Arab States Parties and  encourages  them to continue the cooperation initiatives shown in Algiers and Rabat to implement the activities described in the sub-regional action plans, including through extra-budgetary funding, for the effective implementation of the Regional Programme in the Arab Region; \n 7.  Also encourages  the States Parties to continue their efforts in the preparation and implementation of their National Action Plans and to follow the recommendation of the Rabat meeting regarding the establishment of national entities for World Heritage, as early as possible; \n 8.  Invites  States Parties to work closely with the Arab Regional Centre for World Heritage in Bahrain for the reinforcement of their capacities in the implementation of the World Heritage Convention; \n 9.  Decides  that significant modifications to boundaries and changes to criteria (re-nominations) requested by States Parties as a follow-up to the second cycle of the Periodic Reporting exercise will not fall within the limit of the two nominations per State Party per year imposed by Paragraph 61 of the  Operational Guidelines,  while they will still fall within the overall limit of forty-five complete nominations per year. This decision shall apply for the  1 February 2012  deadline for the Arab region, after which time the normal limit established in Paragraph 61 will be resumed; \n 10.  Reiterates its request  to the Arab States Parties to submit the remaining retrospective Statements of Outstanding Universal Value no later than  1 February 2012 ,   and boundary clarifications for their properties, no later than  1 December 2011 ; \n 11.  Further requests  the World Heritage Centre to publish the results of the second cycle of Periodic Reporting and the Regional Programme and to present a progress report at its 37th session in 2013.