The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  Document WHC-07/31.COM/7B.Add.2,  2.  Recalling  Decision  30 COM 7B.35 , adopted at its 30th session (Vilnius, 2007),  3.  Requests  the State Party to submit a single integrated annual report for this mixed site, as of 2007, in one of the working languages of the  Convention ;  4.  Takes note  of the many advances made by INC and INRENA in implementing the Master Plan, particularly with respect to reforestation, fire control, monitoring of key species, management of the main Inca trail, cadastral surveys, information and communication, rehabilitation of the botanical garden, maintenance of the citadel, reintroduction of native plants, development of a site museum and awareness programmes for children;  5.  Further notes:   a) the ineffectiveness of the Integrated Sanctuary Management Unit,   b) the uncontrolled growth of Machu Picchu Village accompanied by an ever-increasing level of risks from landslides, fires, structural failure, health threats, and social crisis,   c) the absence of a public use plan and associated analysis of access and risks,  d) the difficulties in getting budgetary approval for maintenance work on the archaeological structures of the Sanctuary, and  e) the lack of control of the western access to the property;   6.  Expresses its deep concern  about the consequences of the construction of the Carrilluchayoc bridge and the access road in the buffer and core zone of the Sanctuary and the lack of due process and governance related to this issue, and  also requests  the State Party, as per Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines , to submit any project proposal that could affect the values of the site, to be submitted for evaluation to the Advisory Bodies;   7.  Urges  the State Party to take immediate action to act upon the serious consequences of the recent landslides, and to finalize by  1 February 2008 , and begin implementation of a comprehensive Risk Preparedness Plan with adequate budget, as outlined in the recommendations proposed by the 2007 mission report;   8.  Takes note  of the positive results of the Cusco Workshop,  commends  the major stakeholders and national institutions for developing a common vision towards the future and  further requests  the State Party to submit an official response to the recommendations outlined by the Cusco Workshop;   9.  Also urges  the State Party to give priority to the reorganization of the Sanctuary Integrated Management Unit and consequently  requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  30 September 2007  an updated Annual Operations Plan prepared by the Management Unit;   10.  Encourages  the State Party to undertake the actions required to develop and implement the above mentioned Participatory Emergency Strategy for Control of the Western Access and to address the concerns and threats outlined in the mission report, and to submit a draft Strategy document by  30 November 2007  to be evaluated by the Advisory Bodies;   11.  Invites  the State Party to produce and widely distribute by  30 November 2007 , authoritative information for visitors and tour operators regarding the considerable risks associated with overnight stays at Machu Picchu Village;   12.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2008 , a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and the progress made in the implementation of the recommendations of the 2007 mission report for examination by the Committee at its 32nd session in 2008.