The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7A , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7A.2 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Notes with satisfaction  that the State Party has now regained control over the entire property, thus creating the basic conditions to start the process of recovery of its integrity and Outstanding Universal Value; \n 4.  Expresses its concern  on the results of the rapid wildlife assessment, which indicate that wildlife populations are at critical low levels and that poaching and illegal activities are occurring across the property;&nbsp;&nbsp; \n 5.  Urges  the State Party to increase its efforts to fully implement all the corrective measures and recommendations of the 2006 mission within&nbsp; an agreed timeframe, in particular by establishing an effective patrolling system for the whole property and developing and implementing a management plan which will set out a strategy for recovery of the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 6.  Calls upon  the State Party and the international community to increase their financial support for the management and rehabilitation of the property; \n 7.  Requests  the State Party in cooperation with the World Heritage Centre and IUCN to organise a comprehensive wildlife survey to fully assess the state of conservation of the property, which can be used as a baseline to monitor the recovery of the wildlife and to develop the desired state of conservation for removal from the List of World Heritage in Danger. The State Party might wish to request international assistance from the World Heritage Fund to finance this survey;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; \n 8.  Expresses its utmost concern  about the granting of mining exploration licences covering the property,  urges  the State Party to take the necessary steps to ensure the withdrawal of these licenses and  calls on  the holders of any concessions to respect international standards relating to mining in World Heritage properties, as outlined in the International Council on Mining and Metals Position Statement on Mining and Protected Areas (2003); \n 9.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and Advisory Bodies, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value and a proposal for the desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 10.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010,  a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and on the implementation of the corrective measures and other recommendations of the World Heritage Committee, including a copy of the draft management plan, an overview of current and projected budgets for the management of the property, the status of anti-poaching activities, and information on wildlife populations, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 11.   Decides    to retain Como&eacute; National Park (C&ocirc;te d\'Ivoire) on the List of World Heritage in Danger .