The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7B , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.48 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec   City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes  the progress made with the finalisation of the management plan, the extension of the buffer zone, the development of infrastructure projects and the identification of possible donors; \n 4.  Also notes  that the oil and gas exploration has ceased and that the current plans for the second national port are unlikely to impinge adversely on the property; but nevertheless  stresses  the need for National Museums of Kenya (NMK) to be involved in the whole planning process for the proposed port; \n 5.  Requests  the State Party to provide three printed and electronic copies of the management plan which is due to be completed shortly, together with an action plan, for review by the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies; \n 6.  Also requests  that the proposal to extend the buffer zone to cover the Ras-Kitau-Manda skyline be submitted to the World Heritage Committee for approval; \n 7.  Urges  the State Party to continue with its exploration of a wider extension of the buffer zone to cover the Lamu peninsula and the wider water catchment area supported by the Donor Conference; \n 8.  Requests  that the proposals for major developments at Fort Lamu and the Lamu seafront be submitted to the World Heritage Centre in conformity with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 9.  Expresses its continuing concern  at pressures on the property from informal settlements and projects in the buffer zone; \n 10.  Also urges  the State Party, in collaboration with the relevant ministries, to support the NMK and the Lamu County Council to put in place strong planning mechanisms and protection measures in order to provide a robust structure and ensure the protection of the property; \n 11.  Further requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS / ICCROM reactive monitoring mission to the property in 2010 to assess the state of conservation and in particular, the potential threat to the Shella sand dunes and other parts of the buffer zone, and also the overall sustainable development of the property; \n 12.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2011  a progress report on the implementation of the above for consideration by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.