The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.&nbsp;&nbsp;  Having examined  Documents WHC-12/36.COM/8B and WHC-12/ 36.COM/INF.8B2 ,   \n 2.&nbsp;&nbsp;  Inscribes  the  Western Ghats, India,  on the World Heritage List, on the basis of  criteria   (ix)  and  (x) ; \n 3.&nbsp;&nbsp;  Adopts  the following provisional Statement of Outstanding Universal Value: \n  Brief synthesis  \n The Western Ghats are internationally recognized as a region of immense global importance for the conservation of biological diversity, besides containing areas of high geological, cultural and aesthetic values. A chain of mountains running parallel to India&rsquo;s western coast, approximately 30-50 km inland, the Ghats traverse the States of Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra and Gujarat. These mountains cover an area of around 140,000 km&sup2; in a 1,600 km long stretch that is interrupted only by the 30 km Palghat Gap at around 11&deg;N. \n Older than the great Himalayan mountain chain, the Western Ghats of India are a geomorphic feature of immense global importance. The outstanding universal values of the Western Ghats are manifested in the region&rsquo;s unique and fascinating influence on large-scale biophysical and ecological processes over the entire Indian peninsula. The high mountains of the Western Ghats and their characteristic montane forest ecosystems influence the Indian monsoon weather patterns that mediate the warm tropical climate of the region, presenting one of the best examples of the tropical monsoon system on the planet. The Ghats act as a key barrier, intercepting the rain-laden monsoon winds that sweep in from the south-west during late summer. A significant feature of the Western Ghats is their exceptionally high level of biological diversity and endemism. This mountain chain is recognized as one of the world&rsquo;s eight &lsquo;hottest hotspots&rsquo; of biological diversity along with Sri Lanka. \n The forests of the Western Ghats include some of the best representatives of non equatorial tropical evergreen forests in the world. At least 325 globally threatened (IUCN Red Data List) species occur in the Western Ghats. The globally threatened flora and fauna in the Western Ghats are represented by 229 plant species, 31 mammal species, 15 bird species, 43 amphibian species, 5 reptile species and 1 fish species. Of the total 325 globally threatened species in the Western Ghats, 129 are classified as Vulnerable, 145 as Endangered and 51 as Critically Endangered. \n  Criterion (ix):  The Western Ghats region demonstrates speciation related to the breakup of the ancient landmass of Gondwanaland in the early Jurassic period; secondly to the formation of India into an isolated landmass and the thirdly to the Indian landmass being pushed together with Eurasia. Together with favourable weather patterns and a high gradient being present in the Ghats, high speciation has resulted. The Western Ghats is an &ldquo;Evolutionary Ecotone&rdquo; illustrating &ldquo;Out of Africa&rdquo; and &ldquo;Out of Asia&rdquo; hypotheses on species dispersal and vicariance .  \n  Criterion (x):  The Western Ghats contain exceptional levels of plant and animal diversity and endemicity for a continental area. In particular, the level of endemicity for some of the 4-5,000 plant species recorded in the Ghats is very high: of the nearly 650 tree species found in the Western Ghats, 352 (54%) are endemic. Animal diversity is also exceptional, with amphibians (up to 179 species, 65% endemic), reptiles (157 species, 62% endemic), and fishes (219 species, 53% endemic). Invertebrate biodiversity, once better known, is likely also to be very high (with some 80% of tiger beetles endemic). A number of flagship mammals occur in the property, including parts of the single largest population of globally threatened &lsquo;landscape&rsquo; species such as the Asian Elephant, Gaur and Tiger. Endangered species such as the lion-tailed Macaque, Nilgiri Tahr and Nilgiri Langur are unique to the area. The property is also key to the conservation of a number of threatened habitats, such as unique seasonally mass-flowering wildflower meadows, Shola forests and Myristica swamps. \n  Integrity  \n The 39 component parts of this serial property fall under a number of protection regimes, ranging from Tiger Reserves, National Parks, Wildlife Sanctuaries, and Reserved Forests. All components are owned by the State and are subject to stringent protection under laws including the Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972, the Indian Forest Act of 1927, and the Forest Conservation Act (1980). Through these laws the components are under the control of the Forestry Department and the Chief Wildlife Warden, thus the legal status is adequate. 40% of the property lies outside of the formal protected area system, mostly in Reserved Forests, which are legally protected and effectively managed. The Forest Conservation Act (1980) provides adequate regulatory framework to protect them from infrastructure development. \n  Protection and management requirements  \n Integrating the management of 39 components across 4 States is a challenge, for which a 3-tier governance mechanism will be set up that would operate at the Central, State and Site levels to provide effective coordination and oversight to the 39 components. A Western Ghats Natural Heritage Management Committee (WGNHMC) under the auspices of the Ministry of Environment of Forests (MoEF), Government of India to deal with coordination and integration issues is already functional. All 39 components in the 7 sub-clusters are managed under specific management / working plans duly approved by the State/Central governments. \n 4.&nbsp;&nbsp;  Commends  the State Party on its continued and responsive efforts to improve protection and management of the property and on ensuring better and effective coordination and oversight mechanisms; \n 5.&nbsp;&nbsp;  Requests  the State Party to: \n a)&nbsp;&nbsp; Take into account the outcomes of scientific studies of institutes specialized in the field, and their recommendations, \n b)&nbsp;&nbsp; Ensure proactive tourism management in anticipation of increased future visitation, and to ensure that visitation remains within the capacity of the property, \n c)&nbsp;&nbsp; Ensure any proposed infrastructure developments are subject to rigorous prior impact assessments, to determine if they are appropriate, including via reporting to the World Heritage Committee in line with paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines to the World Heritage Convention , \n d)&nbsp;&nbsp; Establish improved coordination and integration between the components, particularly through the preparation and implementation of an overarching management plan or framework for the serial property as a whole.