The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7B.98 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Takes note  of the technical documentation provided by the State Party concerning the conditions for continuing the tunneling works in progress; \n 4.  Notes  the progress on the railway tunnel under Mallorca street, in conformity with the predictions of soil stability and structural vibration at the Sagrada Familia; \n 5.  Also notes  the placing of a row of concrete piles to protect the foundations of the Casa Mil&agrave;, in conditions similar to those of the Sagrada Familia; \n 6.  Urges  the State Party to implement the following points in order to improve monitoring of the drilling near the Sagrada Familia and Casa Mila, and to facilitate their immediate halt at the slightest alert or the least uncertainty in the soil behaviour to ensure the structural integrity of the Sagrada Familia and Casa Mil&agrave;: \n a) Identify technical programmes underway or planned on the following: \n i) the timetable for progress of the boring towards the Casa Mil&agrave;, \n ii) the status of the permanent monitoring programme for soil compaction and structural vibration effects related to rail traffic (subway and / or high-speed train AVE (Alta Velocidad Espa&ntilde;ola)) at the Sagrada Familia and Casa Mil&agrave;, \n iii) a monitoring programme for structural vibration effects linked to the rail traffic of the Sagrada Familia and Casa Mila subway, \n iv) the technical anti-vibration systems foreseen at the time of the installation of the underground railway, \n v) regulations to limit the speed of high-speed trains in the tunnel, to make vibrational effects completely negligible in the long term, \n b) Confirm that the Monitoring Committee will remain permanent in order to ensure ongoing monitoring of soils and structures at the Sagrada Familia and Casa Mil&agrave;, \n c) Provide the information requested above to the World Heritage Centre by  31 October 2011  at the latest; \n 7.  Requests  the State Party to continue to regularly inform the World Heritage Centre of the work in progress and conclusions of the meetings of the Monitoring Committee; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to immediately inform the World Heritage Centre in the event of soil compaction or other events that could have a negative impact on any of the components of the World Heritage property; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013 , a progress report on the implementation of the above recommendations, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013.