The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7B.88 ,   adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010),    \n 3.  Welcomes  the halting of all work on the Bagrati Cathedral, as well as progress in the implementation of the rehabilitation programme and the conservation master plan for Gelati Monastery; \n 4.  Notes with satisfaction  that the coordination between the Georgian Church and the national authorities has been enhanced, joint activities reinforced and the management of religious and sacred World Heritage properties in Georgia improved; \n 5.  Also notes  that the State Party has appointed an international conservation architect as a consultant for Bagrati Cathedral and that Georgian engineers are working on a three-phased approach to fully rehabilitate the Bagrati Cathedral, as an enclosed space; \n 6.  Takes note  that the international consultant considers that the incomplete structural condition of the Bagrati Cathedral is not sustainable, that it might not be feasible to reverse what has been recently built as the interventions are almost irreversible, and that a lightweight roof could be mounted on the existing concrete columns; \n 7.  Urges  the State Party to develop a rehabilitation strategy for the Bagrati Cathedral that reverses the maximum amount of recent work, incorporates fragments on site if possible where they form part of the walls, ensures any lightweight roof provides a profile for the building that is similar to what might have once existed and leaves the interior unplastered; \n 8.  Requests  the State Party to submit this rehabilitation strategy to the World Heritage Centre, for review by the Advisory Bodies, before any commitment is made; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to assess the overall state of conservation of the property and to discuss approaches to the rehabilitation strategy of Bagrati Cathedral; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1February2012 , an updated report on the state of conservation of the property and the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 11.   Decides    to retain Bagrati Cathedral and Gelati Monastery (Georgia) on the World Heritage List in Danger.