The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.   Having examined   Document WHC-13/37.COM/6, \n 2.   Recalling   Decisions   35 COM 9B, 36 COM 6   and   36 COM 9B   , adopted at its 35th (UNESCO, 2011) and 36th (Saint Petersburg, 2012) sessions respectively, \n 3.   Welcomes   the progress made on the implementation of the World Heritage Capacity Building Strategy (WHCBS) and the capacity building activities carried out in 2012 and 2013; \n 4.   Thanks   the Government of Switzerland for its continued support for the implementation of the World Heritage Capacity Building Strategy; \n 5.   Calls on   all States Parties and other organzations with an interest in capacity building to provide funding and other support for the implementation of the World Heritage Capacity Building Strategy and its associated programmes at the international and regional levels; \n 6.   Acknowledges   the very important role that category 2 centres and the capacity-building centres related to World Heritage are playing in the implementation of the WHCBS, and their potential to further contribute to capacity-building in general; \n 7.   Welcomes   the progress made by all category 2 centres related to World Heritage in implementing their activities as well as the outcomes of their third coordination meeting (Oslo, 5-8 March 2013), notably the decision by all of them to review, with the support of UNESCO, their strategies and plans by applying the results-based management (RBM) approach so as to ensure that their activities are tied to the overall objectives of UNESCO and the priorities established by the Committee; \n 8.   Further welcomes   the proposed strengthening of synergies and cooperation at the regional level between UNESCO category 2 centres and UNESCO Chairs, IUCN regional networks and ICOMOS National Committees, and at the thematic level with ICCROM, ICOMOS International Scientific Committees and the UNESCO UNITWIN Networks; \n 9.   Thanks   the Nordic World Heritage Foundation (Oslo, Norway) for having hosted the third annual coordination meeting of category 2 centres related to World Heritage, with financial support from the Norwegian Ministry of Environment; \n 10.   Requests   the World Heritage Centre and ICCROM to submit a progress report on the implementation of the World Heritage Capacity Building Strategy and the activities of the UNESCO category 2 centres related to World Heritage for examination by the Committee at its 38th session in 2014.&nbsp;