The World Heritage Committee \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.106 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Notes  that currently, the work on the construction of a large straw-burning power plant in the buffer zone on the outskirts of the Szerencs has been halted; \n 4.  Urges  the State Party to use all the means at its disposal to ensure that work does not resume, in the light of the adverse impact on the Outstanding Universal Value identified by the advisory mission and to keep the World Heritage Committee informed; \n 5.  Welcomes  the on-going work to prepare a World Heritage Bill that will provide enhanced protection and management systems for all World Heritage properties in Hungary and  also notes  that many of the recommendations of the advisory mission will be addressed as a result; \n 6.  Further notes  that the maps of the property adopted at the time of inscription do not show exclusion areas for mining and quarrying sites within the property, and therefore  considers  that all proposed and existing mining and quarrying sites lie within the boundaries of Tokaj Wine Region Historic Cultural Landscape\'s property; \n 7.  Recalls  the World Heritage Committee\'s clear position that mineral exploration and exploitation is not compatible with World Heritage status, in line with the international policy statement of the International Council of Minerals and Metals (ICMM) of not undertaking these activities in World Heritage properties; \n 8.  Expresses serious concern  about the potential development of an andesite mine near the settlement of Szegi within the property, and  also   urges  the State Party of Hungary not to grant a license for this proposed mine; \n 9.  Requests  the State Party to undertake a review of the impact of the different traditional and commercial quarries within the property on its Outstanding Universal Value and to submit it to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013,  for consideration by the Advisory Bodies; \n 10.  Notes furthermore  that there is a need for a reflection on the precise delineation of the buffer zone in the light of the development of a retrospective Statement of Outstanding Universal Value; \n 11.  Takes note  that there are several proposals for new or improved roads that might impact on the property or its buffer zone, and  also requests  the State Party to keep the World Heritage Committee informed, in line with Paragraph 172 of the Operational Guidelines; \n 12.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013 , an updated report on the state of conservation of the property and the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013.