The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  32 COM 7B.105 ,  33 COM 7B.118  and  34 COM 7B.95 , adopted at its 32nd (Quebec City, 2008), 33rd (Seville, 2009) and 34th (Brasilia, 2010) sessions respectively,    \n 3.  Deeply regrets  that the State Party did not submit a state of conservation report, as well as any boundary modification/clarification as requested by the World Heritage Committee and did not address the World Heritage Committee request to extend the buffer zone of the property; \n 4.  Expresses its grave concern  that the need to provide an overarching management framework for the property has not been addressed as requested by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session; \n 5.  Notes  the recent information received from the State Party that it plans to organize an international expert forum in Saint Petersburg in order to discuss boundary issues, as requested by the World Heritage Committee; and  requests  it to submit to the World Heritage Centre all relevant information on the conclusions and outcomes of the forum; \n 6.  Acknowledges  the information regarding "Okhta Centre" Tower project including the possible revision and change of location, provided by the municipal authorities, and  also regrets  that the State Party has not provided an official confirmation to the World Heritage Committee; \n 7.  Also requests  that the new project proposal, as well as any new project within the property or a project having a potential visual impact on the property, should be accompanied by a Heritage Impact Assessment, in conformity with the ICOMOS Guidance on Heritage Impact Assessments for World Heritage cultural properties; \n 8.  Further regrets  that the State Party did not submit a revised draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value as requested by the World Heritage Committee, and  reiterates its request  to the State Party to submit a revised draft, taking into account the recommendations of the 2010 World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission, by  1 October 2011 ; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , an updated report on the state of conservation of the property and on the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012.