The World Heritage Committee,    \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7A.10 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Expresses its grave concern  over the incessant degradation of the Outstanding Universal Value of the property on the basis of reports received, indicating that several species of antelope and other large wildlife have disappeared from the property, or are about to disappear, due to extensive poaching within and around the property; \n 4.  Notes with concern  the lack of progress in implementing corrective measures, mainly because of continuing insecurity; \n 5.  Urges  the State Party to pursue and intensity its efforts to fully implement all corrective measures, and in particular the fight against poaching, and other recommendations proposed by the 2005 monitoring mission, and  invites  the international community to increase its support to the property; \n 6.  Expresses its concern  about reports regarding the existence of a petroleum concession in the T&eacute;n&eacute;r&eacute;, and  requests  the State Party to clarify the status and location of this concession, and any other mining or petroleum prospecting activities that may affect the property, and to submit studies on their potential environmental impacts; \n 7.  Recalls  that several years ago the Committee adopted a clear position on issues of mining and petroleum prospecting and exploitation in the inscribed properties, deeming them incompatible with World Heritage status; \n 8.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to conduct by the 37th session of the World Heritage Committee in June-July 2013, and in cooperation with the IUCN Species Survival Commission, an inventory of the remaining large wildlife, in order to assess the status of the Outstanding Universal Value of the property and develop rehabilitation and re-establishment programmes of the wildlife populations. The State Party should invite a joint World Heritage Centre / IUCN mission to the property as soon as the inventory is available; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property, particularly on the implementation of corrective measures and other recommendations of the World Heritage Committee, especially the inventory of the fauna within the property, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 10.   Decides    to retain the A&iuml;r and T&eacute;n&eacute;r&eacute; Natural Reserves (Niger) on the List of World Heritage in Danger