The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B.Add,    \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7B.110 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Takes note  of the information provided by the State Party regarding the arrangements for implementing the decisions of the World Heritage Committee,  recognizes  the efforts made by the State Party to ensure the safeguarding of the property and  commends  the Haitian Institute for the Preservation of the National Heritage (ISPAN) for the work undertaken and the respect of the decisions of the World Heritage Committee; \n 4.  Welcomes  the initiative of the Culture Sector of UNESCO in organizing the Haiti Donors Conference for Culture on 19 April 2011, and  requests  that the projects foreseen for the property be one of the priorities of the action plan that will be developed. \n 5.  Also thanks  the Government of Spain and the Spanish Agency for International Development Cooperation for their generous contribution to the implementation of the decisions of the World Heritage Committee; \n 6.  Also takes note  of the mission report prepared by the World Heritage Centre; \n 7.  Further takes note  of the progress of the Haitian Ministry for Public Works\' proposal for an alternative to the 003 national road, and  reiterates its request  that the final draft, as well as the environmental impact studies and the assessment of impact on the heritage be submitted to the World Heritage Centre and to the Advisory Bodies for review before any intervention; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to submit the technical project for the improvement of the existing road within the Park, including its route, the engineering work for the canalization of the river, the type of asphalt and the width of the route, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to take all necessary measures at the inter-ministerial level to ensure that no undertaking, work or facilities destined for tourism are developed before they are taken into consideration in the conservation plan; \n 10.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre the draft Retrospective Statement of Outstanding Universal Value of the property and to take all necessary steps to officially finalize the cadastral survey, as well as the delineation of the Park boundaries and its buffer zone and the legal framework for their protection; \n 11.  Finally requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012,  an updated report on the state of conservation of the property and the implementation of the above, for consideration by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012.