The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7B.51 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Welcomes  the effort made by the State Party in securing resources for the conservation of the property through negotiating a 12 million Euro loan with the French Development Agency; \n 4.  Expresses its strong concern  about the ongoing degradation and collapse of historic urban fabric and the construction of non-conforming buildings, affecting the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 5.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to consolidate the conservation and management arrangements for the property, and in particular to: \n a) Enact a decree to establish the Safeguarding Committee so that it can start operations at the earliest possible opportunity, \n b) Appoint the site manager for the property so that he/she can begin work at the earliest possible opportunity, \n c) Ensure sufficient human, financial and technical resources for all of the necessary conservation and management activities at the property, \n d) Implement building control and building permit mechanisms in coordination with the Municipality of Saint-Louis, \n e) Ensure adequate coordination amongst initiatives being developed at the property between different institutional stakeholders at the national, regional and local level; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to ensure that the site manager and the Safeguarding Committee are a part of the decision-making structure of the project for "Tourism Development in Saint-Louis and its Region"; \n 7.  Urges  the State Party to immediately begin the preparation of the management plan in coordination with the municipality; \n 8.  Encourages  the State Party to clarify through a Memorandum of Understanding or other means, the specific roles, responsibilities, duties, and capacities of governmental institutions at the national and municipal levels; \n 9.  Invites  the State Party and the municipality to provide the World Heritage Centre with detailed information regarding any major projects foreseen on the Island of Saint-Louis and its buffer zone for review by the Advisory Bodies, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the Operational Guidelines; \n 10.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013,  a report on the state of conservation of the property and the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013.