The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7B , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  31 COM 7B.23 , adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007), \n 3.  Notes  the progress made by the State Party in the management of the property, including the banning of jet-skis and the cancellation of the tourism project on Lam Bo; \n 4.  Takes note  of the need to continue to protect the values of Lam Bo from tourism development, and to ensure that revised plans for eco tourism activities are not implemented unless supported by a thorough and objective environmental assessment; \n 5.  Recommends  that the future of the Cua Van Cultural Centre be carefully assessed, and a plan developed to ensure its sustainable operation in an appropriate location, including considering its relocation to a less sensitive location in the buffer zone of the property; \n 6.  Expresses serious concern  that the Outstanding Universal Value of the property remains under pressure due to tourism, fishing and other activities within its boundaries, and from major economic development projects and landfill activities in the areas surrounding the property; \n 7.  Requests  the State Party to ensure that no development having a significant direct or indirect impact on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property takes place, and to: \n a) Strictly enforce the protective legislation for the property, and ensure that all developments that could impact the Outstanding Universal Value of the property are subject to rigorous Environment Impact Assessment in accordance with internationally accepted standards of best practice, taking into account its Outstanding Universal Value, \n b) Further reinforce the Ha Long Bay Management Board and in particular enhance its capacity through additional staff and financial resources in relation to: \n (i) monitoring of impacts on the property, \n (ii) regulation of use, \n (iii) regulation of threats from outside the property including development and landfill projects, waste, fisheries, and visitors management; \n 8.  Recommends  that the State Party carries out a management effectiveness assessment for the property, considering the model provided by the UNESCO/IUCN/UNF Enhancing Our Heritage methodology, and to also put in place a three year programme to implement the outcomes of this assessment; \n 9.  Also recommends  that the State Party considers requesting international assistance from the World Heritage Fund to support the assessment and enhancement of the management effectiveness of the property; \n 10.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011 , a report on the state of conservation of the property and on steps taken to implement the recommendations set out above, and especially to provide information on the landfill and other major developments taking place outside the boundaries of the property, and the assessments that have been made on their impacts, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.