The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-09/33.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  28 COM 15B.120 , adopted at its 28th session (Suzhou, 2004), \n 3.  Requests  the State Party to submit more detailed technical information in regard to current intervention projects. \n 4.  Urges  the State Party to reconsider the construction of a cable car, considering the potential impacts on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, and to implement the Directorial Resolution so that the Corredor Segregado is not constructed in light of the effects it would have on the Historic Centre, \n 5.  Regrets  that no specific information concerning Decision  28 COM 15B.120  was sent; and  reiterates its request  to provide updated information on the state of the management system, including the implementation of the Master Plan and the operation of the management unit; \n 6.  Also requests  the State Party, in consulation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies, to develop a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 7.  Takes note  of the projects presented by the State Party and  also requests  the State Party, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines , to submit additional information on the current status and technical specifications for interventions at the Municipal Theatre, the Metropolitan Museum and the Municipal Programme for the Integral Urban Renovation of Lima, including an assessment of the potential impact of these programs on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property for review by the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to invite a jointed World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to the property to assess its current state of conservation and the potential impact of the proposed and approved projects on the Outstanding Univseral Value of the property; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010,  a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and on the progress made in the implementation of the above recommendations, for the examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010.