The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7B.13 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Notes with satisfaction  that an International Workshop on effective management of the property was held in November 2010 as requested by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session, and  encourages  the State Party to implement the workshop\'s recommendations; \n 4.  Expresses its grave concern  that road construction within the property has not ceased as repeatedly requested by the World Heritage Committee, that forest die-back continues to adversely affect the property, and that, in the absence of urgent and effective action, the property is likely to face a gradual irreversible loss of its Outstanding Universal Value; \n 5.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to cease all road construction in the Lake Habema region and rehabilitate recently constructed roads, and  urges  the State Party to commission a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) of the integrated transport programme for Papua Province as it relates to the property, in order to identify the least environmentally damaging transport options for the alpine region of the property, including alternatives to road building; \n 6.  Notes  the State Party\'s commitment to investigate and address forest die-back, and  also urges  it to develop management guidelines for all relevant stakeholders undertaking activities within the property to contain the spread of the die-back disease; \n 7.  Requests  the State Party to fully implement the 2008 and 2011 mission recommendations, and to prioritise the following: \n a) Develop and implement a strategy to engage customary owners in park management decision-making processes, \n b) Review the budgeting for the property in order to ensure that resources are directed to address the major threats to its Outstanding Universal Value, \n c) Review the draft management plan and zonation plan using protection of Outstanding Universal Value as the primary basis for zone allocation, \n d) Build the capacity of park staff to manage complex ecological, technical and sociological issues; \n 8.  Also encourages  the State Party to submit an International Assistance request to support the implementation of the above recommendations related to the management effectiveness of the property; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, including progress achieved in implementing the recommendations of the 2008 and 2011 missions and the international workshop, as well as a copy of the Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) of the integrated transport programme for Papua Province, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013.