The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Having examined  the state of conservation of this property;  2.  Takes note  of the conclusions and recommendation of the May 2004 Technical Workshop for the Conservation of the property;  3.  Commends  the State Party for the initiatives that it has taken regarding the conservation and management of the property since its inscription on the List of World Heritage in Danger in 2003;  4.  Expresses its grave concern  that although the responsible authorities have made efforts with some positive outcomes, the threat of uncontrolled development persists, resulting in continuous reduction of the urban landscape and architectural fabric of the property, degrading the authenticity and integrity of the property as a whole;  5.  Recommends  that the State Party take appropriate measures to ensure that the effective management mechanism will be put in place to preserve the World Heritage value of the property in the long-term;  6.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by 1 February 2005, a report on the state of conservation of the property including that of the monumental ensembles and the vernacular fabric within the property, together with proposals for redefining the boundaries of the property, for examination by the Committee at its 29th session in 2005;  7.  Invites  the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies to assist the State Party in identifying an international technical advisor to provide professional expertise for the national and local authorities;  8.  Decides  to postpone the discussion on the possibility of deleting the property from the World Heritage List until the 29th session of the World Heritage Committee in 2005 pending a joint mission by the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS to the property to examine whether the Outstanding Universal Value of the Kathmandu Valley as such has been lost ;  9.  Further recommends  that the State Party consider the redefinition of the protective core and buffer zones of the seven Monuments as well as new criteria and an appropriate name ;   10.  Decides  to retain the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger.