The World Heritage Committee, 1. Calls upon the State Party to approve, as soon as possible, the decree for the application of the Law 2000/45 concerning the environment; 2. Requests the State Party to proceed with the establishment of an Environment and Development Technical Committee (EDTC), technical governmental body responsible for the technical evaluation and approval of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) as well as for verifying the application of the environmental management plan; 3. Urgently encourages the State Party to sign the 1992 International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution, enabling it to have access to the International Oil Pollution Compensation Funds (IOPC Funds), as well as to submit a request to the Marine Environment Protection Committee of the International Maritime Organization, responsible for measures to improve security in international maritime transportation and avoid pollution by tankers, and to obtain the status of Particularly Sensitive Sea Area" (PSSA) for the Banc d\'Arguin National Park; 4. Invites the State Party to request technical assistance from the World Heritage Centre to elaborate the necessary documentation to obtain the status of Particularly Sensitive Sea Area; 5. Encourages the State Party to organize before the end of 2004, a meeting with all the actors concerned, in co-operation with interested donors to determine a capacity-building strategy for national authorities responsible for the implementation of Law 2000/45 on the environment and Law N.2000/24 concerning the Banc d\'Arguin National Park (BANP); 6. Calls upon all the partners, especially the World Bank, to provide the State Party with all necessary assistance in establishing activities to safeguard the ecosystem of the Banc d\'Arguin National Park; 7. Requests the State Party to transmit to the World Heritage Centre the report on the environmental impact study for the road Nouakchott-Nouadhibou and to submit to the World Heritage Centre the measures for the mitigation of the impact of this road on the Park; 8. Recommends to the State Party to oblige all petroleum companies operating on its territory to carry out environmental impact studies in conformity with international standards; 9. Further requests the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by 1 February 2005, a progress report on the implementation of the above-mentioned measures, so that the Committee may examine the state of conservation of the property at its 29th session in 2005.