The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7B.Add , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.25 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec   City, 2008), \n 3.  Urges  the State Party to resolve as soon as possible the issue of the legal protection regime for the property, delimitation of its buffer zones and regulations concerning buffer zones management; \n 4.  Encourages  the State Party to increase control and patrolling of the property to discourage illegal activities within the property and to increase awareness-raising and the involvement of the local communities and stakeholders to ensure that appropriate legal protection is enforced; \n 5.  Notes with satisfaction  the assurance given by the State Party that no development within the property or the buffer zone will take place; \n 6.  Requests  that the State Party provide results of its monitoring activities including the 1999 - 2008 comparative wildlife study; \n 7.  Regrets  that the State Party has not provided any maps indicating the location of installations for the 2014 Winter Olympic Games and other infrastructure developments in the property and in the Sochi National   Park adjacent to the property; \n 8.  Requests  that maps and detailed information be provided on the location and an assessment of potential impacts on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property be provided before any construction begins and  encourages  the State Party to ensure that the Olympic Games and related infrastructure development do not threaten the property; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to ensure that the Outstanding Universal Value of the property is taken into account in the Environmental Impact Assessments and that these documents, including maps are made public and that mitigation to any threats to the Outstanding Universal Value of the property are incorporated in the planning of all infrastructure and tourism development activities neighbouring and within the property; \n 10.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to review the plans and programmes relating to the \'South of Russia 2008-2012\' Federal Target Programme together with plans and programmes of the Krasnodar Territory, Adygei Republic and Karachai-Cherkess Republic to ensure compatibility with the protection of the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 11.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , a report on the state of conservation of the property and on the steps taken to implement the recommendations of the 2008 World Heritage Centre / IUCN mission and on the additional concerns raised above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 12.  Finally requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / IUCN reactive monitoring mission to carry out a timely assessment of progress in implementing the above recommendations before the 34th session of the World Heritage Committee in 2010.