The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.84 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Acknowledges  the progress made by the State Party in civic planning, consultative processes and historic structures documentation; \n 4.  Notes  the references in the State Party\'s report to the development of a general plan, and  requests  the State Party to provide clarification on the scope and the extent of this plan, particularly whether it covers planning and development of infrastructure as well as conservation and rehabilitation, and whether it sets out a long term strategy for traffic management; \n 5.  Also requests  the State Party to provide clarification on the major conservation and restoration proposals in the general plan above, for the 2010-2015 period; \n 6.  Also notes  the World Bank projects to develop water supply and sewage systems in the historic part of the city and invites the State Party to provide the World Heritage Centre with details of the scope of this project and its impact on the archaeological and historic structures; \n 7.  Further notes  the State Party\'s efforts in securing international assistance to support the management plan, and  reiterates  the need to further develop the management plan, to undertake further conservation work on monuments within the property, to establish an effective management framework for the site and to sustain and plan for infrastructural work respecting the traditional urban fabric; \n 8.  Notes furthermore  the importance that the State Party places on tourism development and touristic initiatives and also  further requests  that tourism planning mechanisms form a part of the management plan; \n 9.  Encourages  the State Party to continue strengthening its efforts in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, local authorities, the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS, and possibly other partners, to advance the strategic planning processes and finalize the management plan with a focus on technical assistance and guidance concerning the conservation of the traditional urban fabric, the development of structural restoration projects and the creation of an adequate management framework; \n 10.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, in conformity with Paragraph 172 of the Operational Guidelines, information concerning urban developments, including the new building construction and reconstructions, sewage and other projects having impact on the property; \n 11.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, including progress made in the management plan and strategic planning, for consideration by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012.