The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7B , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.6 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec   City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes  the State Party\'s efforts to manage sustainably the marine resources of the property; and establish a fund to ensure sustainable financing for the property; \n 4.  Also notes  the significant international support of International Banc d\'Arguin Foundation (FIBA) and international partners and  welcomes  the partnerships being developed on remote sensing; \n 5.  Urges  the State Party to complete the &laquo;Plan d\'Intervention en cas d\'Ecoulement d\'hydrocarbures et de substance chimiques dangereuses &raquo; (POLMAR) and to provide a copy to the World Heritage Centre, as soon as possible and preferably before  1 February 2010 ; \n 6.  Further notes with concern  that threats from ongoing low rainfall are contributing to a decline in terrestrial habitats and wildlife; and  encourages  the State Party to assess adaptation measures to respond to climate change and other environmental phenomena with assistance from the international community; \n 7.  Also encourages  the State Party to continue and enhance its efforts against poaching and wood harvesting, which have degraded the terrestrial portion of the property, and to establish a thorough terrestrial monitoring programme which includes wildlife populations, vegetation cover, and threats to the property; \n 8.  Requests  the State Party to pursue its efforts to designate a \'particularly sensitive sea area\' (PSSA) in and near the property, in recognition of risks from the international West African shipping lane; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to provide three printed and electronic copies of the new management plan to the World Heritage Centre and IUCN; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011 , a report on the state of conservation of the property and on the progress made in addressing the threats to the terrestrial portion of the property and in implementing the previous decisions of the World Heritage Committee; \n 11.  Request  the State Party to work with the World Heritage Centre and IUCN to strengthen cooperation on management and research activities in conserving migratory species along the East Atlantic Flyway.