The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7A.12 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Welcomes  the progress achieved by the State Party in the implementation of most of the corrective measures, including the State Party\'s rapid response to the 2011 mission recommendations to set up an integrated monitoring system and a swamp deer recovery plan; \n 4.  Considers , based on the findings of the 2011 joint World Heritage Centre/IUCN monitoring mission, that the recovery of the Outstanding Universal Value has progressed significantly and is now well under way; \n 5.  Notes  that the establishment of sustained finance to the property remains a critical long term requirement to secure its full recovery, and  urges  the State Party to ensure that the Manas Tiger Conservation Foundation is made operational as soon as possible and that funding for the property from the central government is channeled through the Foundation to avoid future delays in the transfer of funds to the property; \n 6.  Also urges  the State Party to implement the following key recommendations of the 2011 joint mission, to ensure the full recovery of the property\'s Outstanding Universal Value: \n a) Ensure the implementation of the Integrated ecosystem-based monitoring system for the property to allow further monitoring of the recovery of the Outstanding Universal Value, \n b) Implement the recovery plan for the Eastern swamp deer and complete the reintroduction programme of the greater one-horned rhino, \n c) Develop a comprehensive tourism management plan in close cooperation with the local communities; \n 7.  Encourages  the State Party to consider the extension of the property in three stages: \n a) Extend the boundaries of the property in light of the expansion of Manas National Park in 1990, taking into account its integrity and long-term viability, \n b) Extend the property with the 36,000 hectares of intact habitat proposed by the Bodoland Territorial Council as an expansion of the national park, once this has been approved at the State and National level, \n c) Conduct a joint feasibility study with the State Party of Bhutan on a possible transboundary extension of the property, in order to increase its ability to adapt to climate change; \n 8.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , a report confirming that the Manas Tiger Conservation Foundation is operational and sustainable finance arrangements are in place for the property, and also on the progress achieved in the implementation of the integrated monitoring system and swamp deer recovery plan, as well as a comprehensive tourism management plan, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 9.   Decides    to remove Manas Wildlife Sanctuary (India) from the List of World Heritage in Danger.