The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-09/33.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.73  adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes  that plans are being developed for a groundwater monitoring system and risk mitigation plans to protect the buried cultural properties from possible fluctuation of groundwater levels, and  further requests  the State Party to submit as soon as possible a concrete timetable for their completion to the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies; \n 4.  Further notes  that the proposed design for temporary structures to be set up on the Heijo Palace site for the 1300th Anniversary Commemorative Events in 2010 would not have a negative impact on the buried cultural objects and the visual integrity of the landscape and requests that a date for their removal be established; \n 5.  Recalling  that any reconstruction project within the property would have to be based only on complete and detailed documentation and to no extent on conjecture, and on all provisions for authenticity and integrity as outlined in the  Operational Guidelines , and appropriately interpreted, \n 6.  Also requests  the State Party, in case it wished to proceed with the proposed reconstruction of certain structures within the Nara Palace site, to submit to the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies a full justification of the rationale for the reconstruction, including the detailed evidence on which it is based; \n 7.  Further requests  the State Party to clarify how the new administrative and institutional framework for the management of the Nara Palace site "National Government Park" impacts on the overall management system for the entire inscribed serial property, i.e. in which ways the conservation policies at each of the eight sites forming the listed property are harmonised and coordinated so as to ensure that Outstanding Universal Value of the World Heritage property is maintained and presented; \n 8.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2011 , a report including information on the points above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 35th session in 2011.