The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Recalls  the objectives of the Global Strategy adopted by the Committee in 1994 and the decisions concerning the representivity of the World Heritage List adopted by the Committee (Cairns, 2000);  2.  Emphasizes  that the main objective is to facilitate the tasks of the States Parties to identify properties of potential outstanding universal value, prepare tentative lists and nominations;   3.  Invites  ICOMOS to: 1) revise the broad categories presented as agreed at its 24th session [Cairns, 2000, VI.2.3.2 (ii) and (iii)], clearly defining each of them, and adopt a\xc2\xa0multiple approach combining (a) geographical, regional and (b) chronological factors, with (c) the diversity of uses (e.g. religious, civil, military etc.) and (d) thematic analysis (e.g. cultural landscapes, urban centres);  2) identify the gaps and underrepresented categories based on this approach;  3) enlarge the composition of the Steering Committee and involve more experts with a broader interdisciplinary background;   4) complete the bibliography (Annex IV of document WHC-02/CONF.202/9) including references to reports on meetings and studies in conformity with the proposal by the 26th session of the Bureau (WHC-02/CONF.202/2, para. VII.7);  4.  Invites  IUCN to:  1) give greater emphasis to the analysis of biodiversity both in terms of qualitative and quantitative richness and endemism;  2) continue with the development of a methodology which allows to evaluate objectivity realms, biomes and biogeographical regions and which takes into account global studies on specific features (e.g. geological/fossil sites) as well as other variables;  3) define categories within each biogeographical unit towards a classification system;  5.  Encourages  ICOMOS and IUCN to:  1) take into account the comments provided by the Committee on Phase I of the analysis, and in particular to move from a quantitative to a qualitative analysis in Phase II;  2) look for common denominators in particular with regard to mixed properties and cultural landscapes;  6.  Recommends  a close collaboration between the Advisory Bodies and the Centre in the development of the analysis;  7.  Invites  States Parties to undertake in-depth analysis of their tentative lists on the national level working towards a more inclusive identification of diverse heritage categories with special attention to, but not exclusively, underrepresented types of heritage;   8. E ncourages  States Parties to include natural heritage in their tentative lists;  9.  Requests  the Centre to co-ordinate the harmonization of tentative lists and thematic workshops with the States Parties and the Advisory Bodies, while addressing the particularity of each region;  10.  Requests  the Director-General to provide the detailed report on the analysis compiled by the Advisory Bodies in time for the 28th session of the Committee in 2004.