The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7B,   \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.42 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec   City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes  the actions taken by the State Party of France in relation to the increased support for agropastoralism but  regrets  the lack of strategy and clear links to conservation of the cultural landscape features; \n 4.  Requests  the two States Parties to establish, on a joint and mutually agreed basis, a management and monitoring body for the property, including national natural and cultural focal points for World Heritage; \n 5.  Also requests  both States Parties, through the joint management and monitoring body mentioned above, in cooperation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies to organize a transboundary workshop to draft a joint vision and management planning structure for the property as a whole, and to consider the finalization of the interim management plan for the property, as discussed during the July 2007 reactive monitoring mission to the property; \n 6.  Also regrets  that the State Party of France considers the Gavarnie Festival within the inscribed property should continue, despite the consideration by the World Heritage Committee that it represents an ascertained danger to the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, as defined by Paragraph 180 of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 7.  Strongly urges  the State Party of France to take the necessary steps to relocate the Festival in line with its previous commitments and past decisions of the World Heritage Committee; as well as to close the upper section of the Troumouse road; \n 8.  Further requests  the States Parties to develop with the joint management and monitoring body in cooperation with the Advisory Bodies a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value by 1 February 2010; \n 9.  Finally requests  the States Parties to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , a joint report on progress in addressing the above recommendations and including a detailed plan and schedule for the relocation of the Gavernie Festival or mitigation of all its negative impacts on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010,  with a view to consider, in the absence of substantial progress, the inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger .