The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  34 COM 7B.19  and  34 COM 8B.5 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Also recalling  that the Outstanding Universal Value of the property has been repeatedly and significantly impacted by the development of ski facilities and ski runs within the property and its buffer zone, \n 4.  Expresses serious concern  about the recent approval of the replacement and capacity upgrade of two ski facilities in the property\'s buffer zone, and  recalls  its Decision, taken at its 34th session following the 2009 evaluation mission to the property, that any additional development of ski facilities, ski runs, or associated infrastructure within the property and its buffer zone would result in the inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger; \n 5.  Urges  the State Party to halt further ski developments in the buffer zone until the World Heritage Committee can consider these at its 36th session in 2012 on the basis of the report of the forthcoming World Heritage Centre/IUCN reactive monitoring mission to the property, and  requests  the State Party to inform the World Heritage Committee of any new planned developments, and to provide an Environmental Impact Assessment for all development proposals in the property and its buffer zone, including an assessment of the proposals\' potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts on the property\'s Outstanding Universal Value, in line with Paragraph 172 of the Operational Guidelines; \n 6.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to ensure that the new management plan does not allow further ski development or construction of other facilities within the property and its buffer zone, nor extension of the tourism zone into the property; \n 7.  Encourages  the State Party to commission an independent assessment of the capacity of the property and its buffer zone in order to set clear usage limits for the Bansko ski zone; \n 8.  Also requests  the forthcoming World Heritage Centre/IUCN reactive monitoring mission to the property to determine whether the recent capacity upgrades of ski facilities in the property\'s buffer zone are foreseen in the Territorial Arrangement Plan (TAP) and make a recommendation on the possible inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger, and  further requests  the State Party to provide the mission with an English translation of the TAP; \n 9.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, including confirmation that all inappropriate developments have been halted, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36thsession in2012.