The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.80,  adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009),    \n 3.  Expresses its condolences  to the State Party for the loss and devastation caused by the floods in 2010; \n 4.  Regrets  that little progress has been made towards the implementation of the World Heritage Committee decisions and that no information has been provided concerning ongoing conservation works including repair works to pavilions, monuments and tombs; \n 5.  Expresses its concern  about the serious degradation of the property aggravated by the recent flood and the lack of preparation for emergency actions, including the lack of security measures to protect the property and  urges  the State Party to develop an emergency action plan to address urgent measures necessary for security and stabilisation of structures and to implement them; \n 6.  Also urges  the State Party to take action to adopt the Master Plan and to develop the management plan; \n 7.  Further urges  the State Party to take appropriate measures to stabilise the Tomb of Jam Nizamuddin; \n 8.  Requests  the State Party to submit the defined boundaries to the World Heritage Centre and proposals for the establishment of a buffer zone, for approval by the World Heritage Committee; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to the property to review the state of conservation and the progress on the above issues, and to help the State Party to prepare the post-flood emergency and conservation action plan; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property, including progress on the above issues and the recommendations of the 2006 joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012,  with a view to considering, in the case of confirmation of the ascertained or potential danger to the Outstanding Universal Value, the possible inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger.