The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7A.1 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Notes with concern  the insufficient progress in implementing the corrective measures adopted by the World Heritage Committee at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009); \n 4.  Notes with alarm  that transhumant cattle have invaded a large part of the Park, and artisanal, small-scale mining are occurring within the property, which may threaten the integrity of the property; \n 5.  Expresses its deep concern  that the aerial surveys of the 2010 Programme for the Conservation and Rational Use of Forest Ecosystems in Central Africa (ECOFAC) / MIKE (Monitoring the Illegal Killing of Elephants) revealed that criteria (ix) and (x) are affected due to the disappearance of almost all key species of large mammals in the property, due to poaching and impacts of transhumant livestock; \n 6.  Considers  therefore that the Outstanding Universal Value of the property is seriously degraded, but that there is still potential for regeneration of wildlife populations from Village Hunting Zones (VHZ) nearby; \n 7.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre to support the State Party to organize a workshop to develop the emergency action plan to regenerate the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, and  strongly encourages  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre an application for international assistance in this regard; \n 8.  Reiterates its request  that the States Parties of the Central African Republic, Chad and Sudan develop a common strategy to contribute to the regeneration of the Outstanding Universal Value of the property in a priority area of limited size; \n 9.  Appeals  to the International Community to provide financial and technical assistance for implementing the emergency plan; \n 10.  Further considers  that, in the absence of implementation of the emergency plan, the property will not meet in a very short time the conditions for removal of the property from the World Heritage List, under paragraph 192 of the Operational Guidelines; \n 11.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , a detailed report on the elaboration, financing and implementation of an emergency plan to save the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 12.  Decides  to continue to apply the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism to the property; \n 13.   Also decides    to retain the Manovo-Gounda St Floris National Park (Central African Republic) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.