The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  31 COM 7B.80  adopted at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007) and  34 COM 7B.68 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Urges  the State Party to continue progress in the development of an Integrated Management Plan for the Taj Mahal, and Agra Fort properties, and  requests  it to submit the plan when completed to the World Heritage Centre, for review by the Advisory Bodies; \n 4.  Encourages  the State Party to continue progress in the development of a separate management plan for Fatehpur Sikri, and  also requests  it to submit the plan when completed to the World Heritage Centre, for review by the Advisory Bodies; \n 5.  Further requests  the State Party to reconsider the inappropriate design and installation of the Door Frame Metal Detectors and barricaded queue arrangements at the Eastern and Western gates of the Taj Mahal; \n 6.  Regrets  that the State Party did not provide any details of the new bridge over the Yamuna river, nor a heritage impact assessment, as requested by the Committee, before any commitment was made in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the Operational Guidelines; \n 7.  Expresses its concern  at the apparent impact on visitor numbers that the new bridge could have and  considers  that an overall visitor management strategy which considers traffic management in the hinterland of the property needs to be developed urgently as part of the management plan for the property and Agra Fort; \n 8.  Requests furthermore  the State Party, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the Operational Guidelines, to ensure that impact assessment studies are undertaken for any other development proposal that could affect the properties, including the current visitors traffic access, and museum development proposals at Fatehpur Sikri, before any operational work commitment is entered into; \n 9.  Finally requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013 , an updated report on the state of conservation of the property and on the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013.