The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7B.46 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Notes  the information provided by the State Party on the proposed Port of Lamu at Manda Bay and the Lamu-Addis-Juba-Kigali corridor development project; \n 4.  Expresses its concern  that basic detailed information on the project, such as its scope, exact location and scale, the projected kinds of development foreseen, and the projected population growth has not been provided by the State Party as requested by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010); \n 5.  Also notes  that the details currently available in the public domain suggest that the port project could be considered a mega-project which could impact on the morphology of the coastline, on tidal flows, and on the formation of sandbanks over a wide coastal area, as well as on the socio-economic development of Lamu and its surrounding landscape; \n 6.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party for detailed information on the proposed Port of Lamu at Manda Bay and the Lamu-Addis-Juba-Kigali corridor development project to be provided as soon as possible, in line with Paragraph 172 of the Operational Guidelines, and before any commitment is given; \n 7.  Requests  the State Party to confirm that the National Museums of Kenya will be fully involved in impact assessments of the Port project and that a Heritage Impact Assessment will be carried out to assess its potential impact on Outstanding Universal Value in line with "ICOMOS Guidance on Heritage Impact Assessments for Cultural World Heritage properties"; \n 8.  Further notes  the ongoing work on the gazettement of the Shella Sand Dunes water catchment area, the mapping exercise for the boundaries and buffer zones, the preparation of the management plan, and the progress on the issue of uncontrolled development at informal settlements; \n 9.  Also requests  that the State Party provide the requested maps showing the precisely the boundaries of the property and its buffer zone, and to finalise the management plan as soon as possible and submit it to the World Heritage Centre for review by the Advisory Bodies; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to complete the work on the gazettement of the Shella Sand Dunes water catchment area as soon as possible; \n 11.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012 , an updated report on the state of conservation of the property and in particular on the issues mentioned above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012.