The World Heritage Committee, \n 1. Acknowledges the recent efforts of the State Party, World Heritage Centre, UNESCO&rsquo;s Cultural Heritage Division, the Advisory Bodies in setting up an Action Plan to address issues affecting the property, and welcomes the active co-operation amongst the stakeholders in the process; \n 2. Notes with concern that the State Party has not provided a report on the state of conservation of the property by 1 February 2005; \n 3. Further regrets that demolition and inappropriate urban development continues despite the Presidential Decree of 2003 to halt uncontrolled development within the World Heritage property and urges that this Decree is fully enforced; \n 4. Expresses its serious concern regarding the overall lack of management of the property and in particular insufficient coordination between the national and municipal authorities; \n 5. Urges the State Party to provide a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property prior to the Round Table in September/October 2004, so that the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies can examine and propose appropriate follow up action; \n 6. Requests the State Party to continue to work in close collaboration with the World Heritage Centre, the UNESCO Cultural Heritage Division, ICOMOS and ICCROM in implementing activities foreseen in the Action Plan; \n 7. Strongly urges the State Party to elaborate a comprehensive Management Plan to address conservation issues, development control and tourism management in order to ensure the future preservation of the property; \n 8. Also requests the State Party in co-operation with the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies to review the situation and to provide a progress report including an updated Action Plan, by 1 February 2005, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 29th session of the Committee in 2005; \n 9. Decides to retain the Walled City of Baku, with the Shirvanshah\'s Palace and Maiden Tower, on the List of World Heritage in Danger.