The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-08/33.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32COM 7B.105 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Regrets  that the State Party did not provide a state of conservation report, or a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value; \n 4.  Notes with concern , that the maps provided by the State Party define boundaries that include a significantly smaller area than that inscribed, and  encourages  the State Party to submit formally a significant boundary modification (according to Paragraph 165 of the  Operational Guidelines ) to allow the Committee to consider this issue; \n 5.  Also notes with concern  that the buffer zone proposed does not extend to encompass the landscape setting of the property and in particular the panorama along the Neva River, and  requests  the State Party to reconsider this buffer zone and submit it formally to the World Heritage Centre; \n 6.  Reiterates its reques t to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, for examination by the World Heritage Committee; \n 7.  Expresses again its grave concern  that the proposed "Ohkta Centre Tower" could affect the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, and  requests  the State Party to suspend work on this project and submit modified designs, in accordance with federal legislation and accompanied by an independent environmental impact assessment; \n 8.  Also expresses its grave concern  about the continuous lack of a leading management system and defined mechanisms of coordination for the management of the property; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to the Historic Centre of Saint Petersburg and Related Groups of Monuments to assess the state of conservation of the property; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010,  a state of conservation report for the property that addresses the above points for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010 , with a view to consider, in the absence of substantial progress, to inscribe the Historic Centre of Saint Petersburg and related Groups of Monuments (Russian Federation) on the List of the World Heritage in Danger at its 34th session 2010.