The World Heritage Committee,\xc2\xa0  \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-12/36.COM/7A, \n 2.  Recalls  Decision  35 COM 7A.5 , adopted at its 35th session (UNESCO, 2011), \n 3.  Welcomes with satisfaction  the important progress reported by the State Party in the implementation of some corrective measures, notably the evacuation of the armed groups from the property and the increase in the area of surveillance, the closure of a large number of artisanal mining operations in the property and the resolution of illegal occupations in Bitale; \n 4.  Notes with concern  the absence of progress accomplished concerning the cancellation by the Government of land rights illegally granted in the property by the Land Titles and Cadastre Service as well as the mining concessions encroaching on the property granted by the Mining Cadastre; \n 5.  Strongly urges  the State Party to initiate a dialogue at the political level with the services of the State (Ministry responsible for the Cadastre and Land rights, Ministry for Mines, Provincial authorities) to reinforce efforts for the implementation of the updated corrective measures adopted by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), and particularly the immediate cancellation by the Government of land rights illegally granted in the property as well as mining concessions encroaching on the property, in conformity with the commitments undertaken in the Kinshasa Declaration; \n 6.  Takes note  of ongoing discussions with concerned populations on the zoning of the property and  requests  the State Party to ensure that the identified zoning options guarantee the conservation of the Outstanding Universal Value of the property and that they are submitted for consideration to the World Heritage Committee before any final decision is made; \n 7.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to carry out as soon as possible a survey of the main populations of wildlife in the lowland sectors of the property to enable an assessment of the state of the Outstanding Universal Value and establishment of a timetable for the rehabilitation of the property; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  1 February 2013 , a report on the state of conservation of the property, including an updated situation of the mining concessions and land rights granted on the territory of the property, progress accomplished in the resolution of the problem of illegal occupation of the ecological corridor and in the implementation of the corrective measures, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013; \n 9.  Decides  to maintain the Reinforced monitoring mechanism for the property; \n 10. \xc2\xa0  Also decides    to retain the Kahuzi-Biega National Park (Democratic Republic of the Congo) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.