The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7B.48 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Expresses its utmost concern  that very little progress has been achieved in implementing corrective measures;   \n 4.  Regrets  that the Ahmed Baba Cultural Centre built near the Sankor&eacute; Mosque remains unused and is deteriorating and  encourages  the State Party to address this as a matter of urgency;   \n 5.  Reiterates its request  for the following corrective measures to be urgently addressed: \n a) Create an inter-ministerial committee for Timbuktu, \n b) Re-locate the amphitheatre away from the Sankore Mosque, \n c) Finalize and adopt urban building regulations and develop a land-use plan for the Old City and its buffer zone, \n d) Submit to the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies a plan for the participation of the population in matters of heritage, \n e) Develop proposals for an extension of the property to encompass the Old City, \n f) Implement the short and medium term actions envisaged in the management plan;    \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre by  31 October 2011 , for review by the Adisory Bodies, details on the proposed urban rehabilitation project of the Sankore neighbourhood and on the proposed Master Plan to be implemented in cooperation with the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC), in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the Operational Guidelines and before any detailed plan is agreed upon; \n 7.  Also requests  the State Party to implement the priority actions for the repair work needed on the Sidi Yahia Mosque and to address the need for waste removal in the property; \n 8.  Also encourages  the State Party to attract the necessary resources to conduct a pilot project for repairing and renovating a dozen or so houses in the Old City with a training component for handcraft people; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013 , an updated report on the state of conservation of the property and the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013.