The World Heritage Committee, \n  I  \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7A.20 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Recalling  the relevant provisions on the protection of cultural heritage including the four Geneva Conventions (1949), the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict of 1954, the Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage of 1972, the inscription of the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls at the request of Jordan on the World Heritage List (1981) and on the List of World Heritage in Danger (1982), and the recommendations, resolutions and decisions of UNESCO, \n 4.  Reaffirming  that nothing in the present decision, which aims at the safeguarding of the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls, shall in any way affect the relevant United Nations resolutions and decisions, in particular the relevant Security Council resolutions on the legal status of Jerusalem, \n 5.  Affirming  the importance of maintaining the integrity and authenticity in the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls on both sides, \n 6.  Affirms  the necessity of cooperation to facilitate access to the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls, including heritage sites therein, in the context of the UNESCO Conventions for the protection of the cultural heritage, and  recognizes the concerns  expressed regarding the restricting obstacles imposed by the Israeli authorities on the freedom of access; \n 7.  Thanks  international donors for their generous contributions to the UNESCO Action Plan for the Safeguarding of the Cultural Heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem and both sides of its Walls, and  calls upon  the international donor community to further support, through extra-budgetary funding, activities aimed at the safeguarding of the integrity, and authenticity of the cultural heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem and both sides of its Walls; \n 8.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre to make technical expertise and assistance available for the current and future conservation works foreseen in and around the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls, taking into consideration the activities foreseen in the context of the Action Plan, as needed; \n 9.  Regrets  the Israeli refusal to comply with the World Heritage Centre and UNESCO decisions and  requests  Israel to timely cooperate and facilitate the implementation of the World Heritage Committee Decision  34 COM7A.20  which requests, inter alia, a joint World Heritage Centre/ICCROM/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls; \n 10.  Also regrets  the persistence of the Israeli archaeological excavations and works in the Old City of Jerusalem and on both sides of its Walls, and the failure of Israel to provide the World Heritage Centre with adequate and comprehensive information about its archeological activities thereon, and  asks  the Israeli authorities to cease such excavations and works in conformity with the UNESCO Conventions for the protection of cultural heritage; \n 11.  Asks , in this regard, that the World Heritage Centre states in its relevant reports on the obstacles related to the provision of such information by the Israeli authorities and  also requests  the World Heritage Centre to play a proactive role; \n 12.  Further requests  the World Heritage Centre to apply the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism to the Old City of Jerusalem and on both sides of its Walls, and  also requests  that the World Heritage Centre validates in a concrete manner the flow of information provided by the concerned parties on the ongoing activities in and around the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls;    \n 13.  Encourages  the Director-General of UNESCO to take the necessary measures, in consultation and cooperation with the concerned parties, to reactivate and reinvigorate the implementation of the short-, medium- and long-term objectives of the Action Plan, including training, education and cultural activities, and the preservation of sites and monuments of the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls as inscribed on the World Heritage List; \n 14.  Thanks  the Director-General of UNESCO and the World Heritage Centre for steps undertaken in the implementation of the Action Plan for the Safeguarding of the Cultural Heritage of the Old City of Jerusalem and  further requests  them to report on this matter and on the state of conservation of the property at its 36th session in 2012; \n  II   \n 15.  Recalling  176 EX/Special Plenary Meeting/Decision, adopted by the Executive Board of UNESCO at its 176th session, World Heritage Committee Decision  34 COM 7A.20,  and relevant Executive Board decisions, \n 16.  Noting  the Sixth, Seventh, Eighth and Ninth Reinforced Monitoring Reports prepared by the World Heritage Centre, \n 17.  Recognizes the concerns  regarding the decision by the Jerusalem District Planning and Construction Commission on the town planning scheme for the Mughrabi Ascent and the subsequent decision by Israel\'s National Council for Planning and Construction to adopt "an alternative plan for the Mughrabi Ascent", approved on 31 October 2010 by the above-mentioned Commission; \n 18.  Reaffirms , in this regard, that no measures, unilateral or otherwise, should be taken including those which may affect the authenticity and integrity of the site, in contravention with the relevant provisions of the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict of 1954 and of the Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage of 1972; \n 19.  Acknowledges receipt  of the Jordanian design for the restoration and preservation of the Mughrabi Ascent, submitted to the World Heritage Centre on 27 May 2011, and  thanks  Jordan for its cooperation, in accordance with the relevant provisions of UNESCO Conventions for the protection of cultural heritage; \n 20.  Also reaffirms , in this regard, that the UNESCO process for the follow up of the design of the Mughrabi Ascent is to be coordinated with all parties concerned, in accordance with the spirit and content of previous World Heritage Committee decisions, despite the fact that Israel is informing the World Heritage Centre with its "alternative plan for the Mughrabi Ascent", and  requests  that the World Heritage Centre be proactive and follows closely, in the context of the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism, the developments associated with this process; \n 21.  Notes with satisfaction  the access providedby Israel to the Mughrabi Ascent for Jordanian and Waqf experts on 23 May, 8 August and 28 November 2010 and  reiterates its request  that Israel continues the cooperation commenced with all concerned parties, in particular with Jordanian and Waqf experts; \n 22.  Reiterates the call  on the Director-General of UNESCO to organize a follow-up meeting of experts as soon as possible, once the parties concerned have reached an agreement; \n 23.  Decides  to continue applying the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism for the state of conservation of the Mughrabi Ascent, and  further requests  a report from the World Heritage Centre at least every three months, until the 36th session of the World Heritage Committee in 2012; &nbsp;  \n  III  \n 24.   Decides    to retain the Old City of Jerusalem and its Walls on the List of World Heritage in Danger.