The World Heritage Committee, \n 1. &nbsp;Having  examined  Document WHC-13/37.COM/7A.Add, \n 2. &nbsp; Recalling  Decision  36 COM 7A.20 , adopted at its 36th&nbsp;session (Saint-Petersburg, 2012), \n 3. &nbsp;Notes  with alarm  the devastating effect the de-watering has had on the archaeological remains, and  urges  the State Party to undertake conservation condition surveys as soon as possible and establish a prioritized treatment programme that could be implemented urgently; \n 4. &nbsp; Also notes  the need to delay immediate de-watering of the remaining archaeological areas until adequate stabilisation methodologies have been devised and in the meantime to consider burying existing remains on the basis of a detailed re-burial strategy; \n 5. &nbsp; Expresses its concern  at the inappropriate dismantling and rebuilding carried out at the Great Basilica and its impact on authenticity, and  also urges  the State Party not to undertake further reconstruction; \n 6. &nbsp; Requests  the State Party to demolish the inappropriate structures that have been built around parts of the monuments (apart from the temporary wooden church and pilgrim rest house to be considered at a later stage) as soon as possible and put in place a moratorium on all construction within the property; \n 7. &nbsp; Recommends  that the State Party develops a visitor strategy, within the framework of a Management Plan, that allows for a coordinated approach to all visitations and to the provision of information and interpretation for both visitors to the archaeological site and for pilgrims; \n 8. &nbsp; Notes  the progress that has been made by the State Party in recent years, in particular regarding the de-watering of the site, and  also requests  work on basic surveys and conservation plans or on the Management Plan, all of which are part of the corrective measures; \n 9. &nbsp; Encourages  the State Party to continue the work in order that an agreed action plan can be put in place based on the attributes of the property&rsquo;s Outstanding Universal Value; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party, on the basis of surveys, to submit a logical boundary for the property and an appropriate buffer zone as a minor boundary modification; \n 11.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to submit, by  1&nbsp;February&nbsp;2014 , a detailed progress report on the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 38th session in 2014; and if the Desired state of conservation is met, the Committee may remove the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger in accordance with paragraph 191.b of the  Operational Guidelines ; \n 12.   Decides    to retain Abu Mena (Egypt) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.