The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Notes  the report of the joint UNESCO-ICOMOS mission undertaken to the site;  2.  Notes  with great concern the poor state of conservation of the World Heritage site and the high potential negative impacts, cultural as well as environmental, of the proposed theme park project on the site;   3.  Recalls  paragraphs 80 to 82 of the  Operational Guidelines ;  4.  Urges  the State Party:   a) To enhance the state of conservation of the property as a matter of urgency before the Committee considers any steps towards its inclusion on the List of World Heritage in Danger; and in this regard, to seek immediately both national and international funding and to request, for the most urgent restoration works, technical co-operation assistance for the preservation and protection of the World Heritage site. The Committee recalls that funds could be made available, upon request of the State Party, from the World Heritage Fund;\xc2\xa0  b) To establish, as a matter of urgency, a World Heritage coordination team, attached to the city administration, responsible for management, in order to\xc2\xa0prepare an overall management plan, including management of tourism, for the World Heritage site;  c) To take into account the critical social issues of the city and region in any further developments in and around the city of Sighisoara; and to take into account the existing potential development represented notably by a series of World Heritage sites in the region, in particular for cultural itineraries and cultural tourism;   5.  Takes note  with satisfaction of the intention of the Romanian authorities to relocate the proposed theme park, which was planned at a distance of 1.5 km from the World Heritage site;   6.  Requests  furthermore the State Party to avoid constructing the Park in the vicinity of World Heritage sites in Transylvania;  7.  Requests  the State Party to define, as soon as possible, a management plan for the site;  8.  Requests  the State Party to provide by 1 February 2003, a report on this matter and on the status of the project for examination at its 27th session in June/July 2003.