The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.87 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Expresses its great concern  regarding the lack of control for illegal constructions and  regrets  that a long-term plan has not been established to rectify the violations that have already occurred in order to improve the value and integrity of the property; \n 4.  Also expresses its concern  that no progress is being made to introduce a programme for archaeological interventions in case of implementation of major restoration, as well as for the lack of an agreed overall fire response plan for the entirety of the property; \n 5.  Recognises  the efforts made to develop a tourism plan in Berat which aims to support the needs of the local community within the framework of the management plan and  also expresses its great concern  that no such plan has been developed for Gjirokastra; \n 6.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to urgently put in place an agreed action plan and timescale to address the current ones and prevent any further violations; \n 7.  Also reiterates its request  to the State Party to develop and implement detailed and appropriate monitoring indicators related to the attributes which carry the Outstanding Universal Value of the property based on detailed inventories; \n 8.  Notes  the intentions of the State Party to carry out a major restoration project at Berat Castle and  requests  the State Party to provide details to the World Heritage Centre, for assessment by the Advisory Bodies, before any work commences; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission to assess the overall state of conservation of the property, progress in its management and whether the criteria for the possible inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger are met; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2013 , a progress report on the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 37th session in 2013.