The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined   Document WHC-13/37.COM/5A, \n 2.  Recalling   Decision   36 COM 5A.1   adopted at its 36th session (Saint-Petersburg, 2012), \n 3.  Takes note with appreciation   of the results of the activities undertaken by the World Heritage Centre over the past year in pursuit of its five strategic objectives as presented in Document WHC-13/37.COM/5A; \n 4.  Notes   the consultations between the World Heritage Centre and the Advisory Bodies towards the elaboration of a thematic paper proposing to States Parties general guidance regarding the management of their cultural and natural heritage of religious interest, and the progress report on this activity; \n 5.  Also takes note   of the establishment of a steering group in charge of coordinating the elaboration of this thematic paper and   invites   States Parties to support this initiative; \n 6.  Further takes note   of the report of the International Expert Meeting on \xe2\x80\x9cWorld Heritage and Indigenous Peoples\xe2\x80\x9d (Copenhagen, 20-21 September 2012), following Decision   35 COM 12D   , and the report of the Expert Meeting on Visual Integrity (Agra, 6-9 March 2013) and   requests   the Consultative Body on   Operational Guidelines   to consider any implications for future revisions of the   Operational Guidelines ; \n 7.  Welcomes   the establishment of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) and   encourages   the use the network of natural World Heritage sites as priority sites for assessing the state of the planet\'s biodiversity, its ecosystems and the essential services they provide to society; \n 8.  Also encourages   the World Heritage Centre to continue its cooperation with the Biodiversity Liaison Group (BLG) to create further synergies between the Conventions, as well as the joint activities initiated with the Secretariats of the CITES, Ramsar Convention and the Council of Europe, and   further requests   State Parties to ensure their National Biodiversity Strategy and their Action Plans fully consider the importance of natural World Heritage sites to achieve the Aichi Biodiversity Targets; \n 9.  Finally takes note   of progress achieved through the Culture Conventions Liaison Group (CCLG) created by the Assistant Director-General for Culture in 2012 and   further     encourages   it to pursue this work towards enhanced synergies among the Culture Conventions, including on working methods, procedures and in addressing resource issues for statutory meetings.