The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  33 COM 7B.137 , adopted at its 33rd session (Seville, 2009), \n 3.  Acknowledges  the information provided by the State Party regarding the measures implemented to address the recommendations made by the World Heritage Committee, and  urges  it to submit an official management plan, including provisions for public use and risk management and to secure the necessary resources to ensure its full implementation; \n 4.  Also urges  the State Party to develop and implement a comprehensive conservation programme for the tunnels and to establish conservation guidelines for interventions at the property; \n 5.  Reiterates its concern  that the site of Rio Amarillo is being considered for the construction of the airfield, in spite of previous World Heritage Committee decisions, yet  acknowledges  that additional information has been gathered and new studies have been produced after the 2005 reactive monitoring mission conducted by ICOMOS, which requires further analysis; \n 6.  Accepts  the State Party\'s invitation for a joint World Heritage Centre/ICOMOS reactive monitoring mission in 2011 to assess the state of conservation of the property and particularly review all the information produced up to this date regarding the project of building an airfield in the site of Rio Amarillo, including environmental impact assessments, and a heritage impact assessment, in order to update the analysis for consideration and review by the World Heritage Committee; \n 7.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre for review by the Advisory Bodies, in accordance with Paragraph 172 of the  Operational Guidelines , the related technical information for the new protective shelter for the hieroglyphic stairway and for the conservation laboratory for sculptures, prior to approval and implementation; \n 8.  Further urges  the State Party to officially submit information on regulatory measures, land tenure, related cartography for the protection and management of the property and the buffer zone by  30 November 2011 ; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2012,  a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and on the progress made in the implementation of the above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012.