The World Heritage Committee,  1.  Recalls  the recommendation of the report of the monitoring mission in 2001 to include the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger,  2.  Regrets  that the Russian authorities did not provide the report requested by 1 February 2003 ( 26 COM 21 (b) 19 ) until 20 May 2003;  3.  Further regrets  that the high-level meeting called for by the Committee ( 26 COM 21(b) 19 ) did not take place, and  reiterates  its request to the State Party to convene this meeting in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and IUCN and calls on it to do so as soon as possible;  4.  Urges  the State Party to ensure that the proposed transportation route for oil and gas avoids the World Heritage property; and to ensure that no route is selected through the watershed of Lake Baikal without first undertaking a comprehensive Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) to guarantee the highest standards of design and operation;   5.  Requests  the State Party to provide a report to the World Heritage Centre on the outcomes of any EIA and related decisions on the proposed oil and gas transportation route by 1 February 2004 in order that the World Heritage Committee can examine the state of conservation of the property at its 28th session in 2004;\xc2\xa0   6.  Requests  IUCN to make further recommendations to the 28th session of the Committee in 2004, including whether the property meets the conditions for inscription on the List of World Heritage in Danger;  7.  Urges  the State Party to increase efforts to protect the integrity of this unique property and mitigate the key threats outlined by the IUCN / UNESCO mission report (2001), including by guaranteeing sufficient financial resources over a long term period;   8.  Encourages  the World Heritage Centre, IUCN, non-governmental organizations\xc2\xa0 and international donors to seek appropriate ways to support the efforts of the Russian authorities in protecting and conserving Lake Baikal;   9.  Decides  to defer the decision on the inclusion of Lake Baikal on the List of World Heritage in Danger until the 28th session of the World Heritage Committee in 2004.