The World Heritage Committee,   1.  Expresses  appreciation to the State Party for submitting the revised work plan and budget breakdown for the Shalamar Gardens International Assistance request;   2.  Requests  the Advisory Bodies and the World Heritage Centre to assist the authorities in implementing this International Assistance request;   3.  Requests  the State Party to examine the heritage values of Shalamar Gardens and Lahore Fort to redefine the core, buffer and support zones of these two properties;  4.  Takes note  with satisfaction, of the on-going positive co-operation between the Department of Archaeology and other national, provincial and municipal authorities, in order to redress the encroachment issues surrounding the Shalamar Gardens;  5.  Takes note  with appreciation of the positive actions taken or being planned by the State Party and the World Heritage Centre to rehabilitate the Shalamar Gardens and to elaborate a comprehensive management plan, although regretting the delays in implementing the emergency assistance activity for taking corrective measures to remove the threats to the property;  6.  Takes note  with appreciation of the positive actions taken by the State Party in co-operation with the Government of Norway and UNESCO Islamabad Office for the rehabilitation of the Lahore Fort, through documentation of the property, repairing the Shish Mahal ceiling, redefining the core and buffer zones and preparing a comprehensive management plan for the conservation of the property;  7.  Requests  the State Party, in the meantime, to (a) examine the strengths and weaknesses of the existing legal management provisions, and (b) identify areas for harmonizing lacunas or overlaps in jurisdiction of the area immediately surrounding the Shalamar Gardens;   8.  Requests  the UNESCO Secretariat to continue efforts to mobilize international support to implement the corrective measures;   9.  Requests  the State Party to submit a progress report by 1 February 2004 to the World Heritage Centre for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 28th session in 2004;  10.  Decides  to retain the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger.