The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-09/33.COM/7B, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.34 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes with extreme concern  the existing and potential threats to the Outstanding Universal Value of the property as described in the state of conservation report submitted by the State Party; \n 4.  Welcomes  the State Party\'s request for inscription of the property on the List of World Heritage in Danger in order to encourage national and international assistance and support required to address the threats affecting this property and  appreciates  that the State Party recognizes inscription on the List of World Heritage in Danger as a mechanism to promote international collaboration in support of the property; \n 5.   Decides  to inscribe Los Katios National Park (Colombia) on the List of World Heritage in Danger;   \n 6.  Requests  the State Party, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and Advisory Bodies, to develop a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, and a proposal for the Desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 7.  Also requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre/IUCN reactive monitoring mission to the property to assess the threats facing the property, to advise the State Party regarding the points noted in Paragraph 6 above and to identify the necessary corrective measures and the timeframe for their implementation; \n 8.  Invites  the international community to make their utmost efforts to support the State Party to effectively address the existing and potential threats to the property; \n 9.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , a report on the state of conservation of the property and on progress in effectively addressing the threats to the property, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010.