The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-09/33.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.49 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec   City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes  the results of the World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS mission to the property, and of the correctives measures already implemented, in particular the process to create an inter-Ministerial Committee on Timbuktu; \n 4.  Also notes  with satisfaction the conservation work that is in progress on the Djingareyber Mosque, and in particular the recent discovery of ancient pillars of great importance inside the mosque, and encourages the submission to the World Heritage Centre of documentation for current and future work for assessment by ICOMOS; \n 5.  Expresses its concern  that progress in the implementation of corrective measures does not show an improvement away from the danger situation with which the property is confronted, and  regrets  that the measures recommended by the Committee have not been implemented as requested; \n 6.  Welcomes  the announcement of the State Party to relocate the classrooms and pulic toilets in the medium term; \n 7.  Requests  the State Party to make the corrections recommended by the mission to the exterior colours of the Ahmed Baba Centre, so that the Sankor&eacute; Mosque can regain a greater visibility; \n 8.  Urges  the State Party to implement as soon as possible appropriate planning controls to revitalise the traditional architectural forms with appropriate design guidelines, in order to reverse the apparent accelerated change in building materials and form in the old city, to prohibit all new public projects in the old city which will affect the Outstanding Universal Value, and to re-engage the local community in the overall planning processes; \n 9.  Also urges  the State Party to develop a technical strategy for the urgent restoration of the Sidi Yahia Mosque, for assessment by ICOMOS, and to put in place appropriate conservation processes for the mausoleums; \n 10.  Reiterates its requests  to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, for examination by the World Heritage Committee; \n 11.  Also requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / ICOMOS monitoring mission to the property to assess progress and define a timeframe for the implementation of the corrective measures; \n 12.   Decides  not to continue to apply the Reinforce Monitoring Mechanism  to the property and  encourages  the international community to assist the State Party in its efforts to fully implement Decision  32 COM 7B.49 ; \n 13.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , a report on the state of conservation of the property and on the steps taken to implement the recommendations set out above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010.