The World Heritage Committee,  1. Having examined  Documents WHC-07/31.COM/8B and WHC-07/31.COM/INF.8B.1,  2. Inscribes   Samarra   Archaeological City ,  Iraq , on the World Heritage List on the basis of  criteria (ii) ,  (iii)  and  (iv) .  3. Adopts  the following Statement of Outstanding Universal Value:  The ancient capital of Samarra dating from 836-892 provides outstanding evidence of the Abbasid Caliphate which was the major Islamic empire of the period, extending from Tunisia to Central Asia.\xc2\xa0 It is the only surviving Islamic capital that retains its original plan, architecture and arts, such as mosaics and carvings.\xc2\xa0 Samarra has the best preserved plan of an ancient large city, being abandoned relatively early and so avoiding the constant rebuilding of longer lasting cities.  Samarra was the second capital of the Abbasid Caliphate after Baghdad.\xc2\xa0 Following the loss of the monuments of Baghdad, Samarra represents the only physical trace of the Caliphate at its height.  The city preserves two of the largest mosques (Al-Malwiya and Abu Dulaf) and the most unusual minarets, as well as the largest palaces in the Islamic world (the Caliphal Palace Qasr al-Khalifa, al-Ja\'fari, al Ma\'shuq, and others).\xc2\xa0 Carved stucco known as the Samarra style was developed there and spread to other parts of the Islamic world at that time.\xc2\xa0 A new type of ceramic known as Lustre Ware was also developed in Samarra, imitating utensils made of precious metals such as gold and silver.   Criterion (ii) :\xc2\xa0 Samarra represents a distinguished architectural stage in the Abbasid period by virtue of its mosques, its development, the planning of its streets and basins, its architectural decoration, and its ceramic industries.   Criterion (iii) :\xc2\xa0 Samarra is the finest preserved example of the architecture and city planning of the Abbasid Caliphate, extending from Tunisia to Central Asia, and one of the world\'s great powers of that period.\xc2\xa0 The physical remains of this empire are usually poorly preserved since they are frequently built of unfired brick and reusable bricks.   Criterion (iv) :\xc2\xa0 The buildings of Samarra represent a new artistic concept in Islamic architecture in the Malwiya and Abu Dulaf mosques, in the form of a unique example in the planning, capacity and construction of Islamic mosques by comparison with those which preceded and succeeded it.\xc2\xa0 In their large dimensions and unique minarets, these mosques demonstrate the pride and political and religious strength that correspond with the strength and pride of the empire at that time.  Since the war in Iraq commenced in 2003, this property has been occupied by multi-national forces that use it as a theatre for military operations.  The conditions of integrity and authenticity appear to have been met, to the extent evaluation is possible without a technical mission of assessment.\xc2\xa0 After abandonment by the Caliphate, occupation continued in a few areas near the nucleus of the modern city but most of the remaining area was left untouched until the early 20th century.\xc2\xa0 The archaeological site is partially preserved, with losses caused mainly by ploughing and cultivation, minor in comparison with other major sites.\xc2\xa0 Restoration work has been in accordance with international standards.  The boundaries of the core and buffer zones appear to be both realistic and adequate. Prior to current hostilities, the State Party protected the site from intrusions, whether farming or urban, under the Archaeological Law.\xc2\xa0 Protective procedures have been in abeyance since 2003 and the principal risk to the property arises from the inability of the responsible authorities to exercise control over the management and conservation of the site.  4.  Inscribes   Samarra Archaeological City ,  Iraq , on the List of World Heritage in Danger and  requests  the State Party, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and ICOMOS, to develop a draft statement of the desired state of conservation for the property based on its Outstanding Universal Value;  5.  Recommends  that all possibilities offered by the  World Heritage Convention  be used to engage immediately in preventive measures and, when the situation makes this possible, in conservation work for Iraq\'s cultural heritage generally and for all properties inscribed on Iraq\'s Tentative List in particular.