The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7A.23 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Takes note  of the state of conservation report and of the draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value submitted by the State Party, as requested by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010); \n 4.  Thanks  the Director-General of UNESCO for having organised, at UNESCO Headquarters, an International Forum on 2 March 2011 to mark the Tenth Anniversary of the devastating destruction of the Bamiyan Buddha statues and other invaluable cultural heritage properties in Afghanistan; \n 5.  Also takes note  of the conclusions and recommendations of the 9th Expert Working Group Meeting which took place on the 3rd and 4th March 2011 at UNESCO Headquarters; \n 6.  Notes  the efforts and commitment of the State Party and of the international community for safeguarding the property, notably by completing the de-mining of the eight component sites, consolidating the Eastern Buddha niche, and conserving mural paintings and archaeological remains; \n 7.  Encourages  the State Party, when considering options for the treatment of the Buddha niches, to ensure that proposals are based on feasibility studies which include: \n a) An overall approach to conservation and presentation of the property, \n b) An appropriate conservation philosophy based on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property, \n c) Technical and financial possibilities for the implementation of the project proposals; \n 8.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party, in line with the provisions of Paragraph 172 of the Operational Guidelines, to inform the World Heritage Centre of any proposed restoration or new construction within the property; \n 9.  Urges  the State Party to continue its work on the implementation of corrective measures, particularly the need to further increase the size of the security forces on the site and provide them with a minimum of facilities, and  suggests  that public awareness and education programmes need to be advocated in order to address the issue of illicit traffic of antiquities, as well as to start the consolidation of the Western niche; \n 10.  Also urges  the State Party to ensure that the Cultural Master Plan is respected by all national and international actors intervening in the valley and  further urges  the State Party to enforce building codes and controls on development in the buffer zones of the property and other areas protected under the Afghan Law on the Protection of Historical and Cultural Properties 2004; \n 11.  Also encourages  the State Party to finalise the Cultural Landscape and Archaeological Remains of the Bamiyan Valley Management Plan with an overall strategy for the managing the property as a cultural landscape; \n 12.  Calls upon  the international community to continue providing technical and financial support for the protection and management of the property, in particular to achieve the Desired state of conservation; \n 13.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1February 201  2  ,  a report on the state of conservation of the property for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 14.   Decides    to retain the Cultural Landscape and Archaeological Remains of the Bamiyan Valley (Afghanistan) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.