The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Documents WHC-09/33.COM/8B and WHC-09/33.COM/INF.8B1, \n 2.  Inscribes  the  Sacred City of Caral-Supe ,  Peru  ,  on the World Heritage List on the basis of  criteria (ii) ,  (iii)  and  (iv) ; \n 3.    Adopts  the following Statement of Outstanding Universal Value: \n Brief Synthesis \n The Sacred City of Caral-Supe reflects the rise of civilisation in the Americas. As a fully developed socio-political state, it is remarkable for its complexity and its impact on developing settlements throughout the Supe Valley and beyond. Its early use of the quipu as a recording device is considered of great significance. The design of both the architectural and spatial components of the city is masterful, and the monumental platform mounds and recessed circular courts are powerful and influential expressions of a consolidated state. \n  Criterion (ii) : Caral is the best representation of Late Archaic architecture and town planning in ancient Peruvian civilisation. The platform mounds, sunken circular courts, and urban plan, which developed over centuries, influenced nearby settlements and subsequently a large part of the Peruvian coast. \n  Criterion (iii) : Within the Supe Valley, the earliest known manifestation of civilisation in the Americas, Caral is the most highly-developed and complex example of settlement within the civilisation\'s formative period (the Late Archaic period). \n  Criterion (iv) : Caral is impressive in terms of the design and complexity of its architectural and spatial elements, especially its monumental earthen platform mounds and sunken circular courts, features that were to dominate a large part of the Peruvian coast for many centuries. \n Integrity and Authenticity \n Caral is remarkably intact, largely because of its early abandonment and late discovery. Once abandoned, it appears to have been occupied only twice and then not systematically: once in the so-called Middle Formative or Early Horizon, about 1000 B.C.; and once in the States and Lordships period, between 900 and 1440 A.D. Since both these settlements were on the outskirts of the city, they did not disturb the ancient architectural structures. In addition, since the site lacked gold and silver finds, there was little looting. The site has no modern permanent constructions in its immediate surroundings (except for tourism facilities built from local materials). It is part of a cultural and natural landscape of great beauty, relatively untouched by development. Most development has occurred in low valley areas near Lima (to the south of the site). The middle Supe Valley, where the site is located, is an area dedicated to non-industrialised agriculture. There is little argument about the authenticity of the site. Radiocarbon analysis carried out by the Caral-Supe Special Archaeological Project (PEACS) at the Caral site confirms that the development of the site can be located in time between the years 3000 to 1800 B.C. and, more specifically, to the Late Archaic Period. \n Management and protection requirements \n The management system in place is adequate, and a recently modified Management Plan (as of late 2008) has been implemented. The modified plan includes regulations to guarantee the preservation and conservation of the property. \n  4.   Recommends  that the State Party give consideration to the following points: \n a) Clarifying the acceptable level(s) of intervention for consolidating archaeological structures and once clarified, developing detailed guidelines for such intervention(s); \n b) Providing further information on the timetable for the burial or reburial of quincha (wattle-and-daub) architecture and regarding the decision-making process as to which buildings and structures should remain exposed for visitors and the basis for such decision-making.