The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7A.Add , \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7A.10 , adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Welcomes  the fact that in spite of the continuing security problems, the implementation of the corrective measures has now started with support of the Co-management of natural resources of A&iuml;r-T&eacute;n&eacute;r&eacute; and its surrounding areas project (COGERAT), but  notes  that given the size of the property it will take time before a positive impact on the recovery of the Outstanding Universal Value can be registered; \n 4.  Urges  the State Party to continue and increase its efforts to fully implement all the corrective measures and other recommendations of the 2005 monitoring mission; \n 5.  Calls upon  the international community to increase their support for the implementation of the corrective measures; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to provide copies to the World Heritage Centre of the strategic documents that have been developed for the recovery of the property (action plan for sustainable resource management of the property, restoration action plan for degraded land) as well as the studies on wood and thatch use; \n 7.  Reiterates its request  to the State party to organize before the 34th session of the World Heritage Committee in 2010 and, in cooperation with the IUCN Species Survival Commission and its relevant specialists groups, a comprehensive survey of the property, in particular populations size and distribution of threatened species, to evaluate the status of its Outstanding Universal Value and develop population recovery and rehabilitation programmes; \n 8.  Also reiterates its request  to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and Advisory Bodies, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value and a proposal for the desired state of conservation for removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 9.  Also requests  the State Party to invite a joint World Heritage Centre / IUCN mission to the property&nbsp; as soon as the comprehensive survey mentioned above is available and before the 35th session of the World Heritage Committee in 2011, to assess its state of conservation and progress made in the implementation of the corrective measures in view of establishing the desired state of conservation for removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, update the corrective measures and set a timeframe for their implementation; \n 10.  Further requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010,  a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and on the implementation of the corrective measures and other recommendations of the World Heritage Committee, an overview of current and projected budgets for the management of the property, status of anti-poaching activities, and information on trends in wildlife populations, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 11.   Decides    to retain Air and T&eacute;n&eacute;r&eacute; Natural Reserves (Niger) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.