The World Heritage Centre, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-09/33.COM/7A, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7A.7,  adopted at its 32nd session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes with concern  the delay in the implementation of the corrective measures established by the World Heritage Committee at its 31st session (Christchurch, 2007);&nbsp; \n 4.  Urges  the State Party to redouble its efforts to implement the corrective measures and in particular those relating to the organization of a combined anti-poaching operation in cooperation with the Congolese Army (FARDC), to secure the property and implement the anti-poaching strategy; \n 5.  Regrets  the lack of funding available for the implementation of the corrective measures, and more particularly those relating to participatory delimitation and demarcation activities, and  calls upon  the State Party and donors to strengthen support to the property;    \n 6.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to develop, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and Advisory Bodies, a draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value, as well as a proposal for the desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010; \n 7.  Requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , a detailed report on the state of conservation of the property and progress achieved in the implementation of all the corrective measures, in particular those regarding the organization of a combined anti-poaching operation in cooperation with the Congolese Army (FARDC,) to secure the property, and on the implementation of the strategy for anti-poaching, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010&nbsp;; \n 8.  Decides  to continue to apply the reinforced monitoring mechanism for one more year; \n 9.   Also decides    to retain Salonga National Park (Democratic Republic of the Congo) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.