The World Heritage Committee, \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-11/35.COM/7A, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  34 COM 7A.13 , adopted at its 34th session (Brasilia, 2010), \n 3.  Welcomes  the State Party\'s efforts at establishing a systematic set of instruments designed to provide an integrated legal, regulatory and planning framework over which to address conservation concerns, and  urges  it to complete this process as soon as possible; \n 4.  Acknowledges  the State Party\'s decision not to immediately re-issue any of the oil concession area relinquished by the Overseas Petroleum Investment Corporation (OPIC),  reiterates its position  that oil exploration and extraction are incompatible with World Heritage status, and  also urges  the State Party to make a clear and unequivocal commitment to eliminate the oil concessions granted within the boundaries of the property, which could seriously and irreversibly affect its Outstanding Universal Value if activated; \n 5.  Takes note  of the State Party\'s efforts to increase its national marine no-take zone coverage, and  further urges  the State Party to assess the suitability of the property\'s no-take zone coverage to provide effective protection and replenishment areas for fin fish species; \n 6.  Requests  the State Party to clarify the status of the Yum Balisi resort, and to halt any development until its Environmental Impact Assessment has been reviewed and considered by the World Heritage Committee; \n 7.  Reiterates its request  to the State Party to finalize, in consultation with the World Heritage Centre and IUCN, the draft Statement of Outstanding Universal Value for the property and the proposal for the Desired state of conservation for the removal of the property from the List of World Heritage in Danger, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 8.  Also requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by 1 February 2012, a report on the state of conservation of the property, including on progress made in implementing the corrective measures and on eliminating oil concessions within the property, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session in 2012; \n 9.   Decides    to retain the Belize Barrier Reef Reserve System (Belize) on the List of World Heritage in Danger.