The World Heritage Committee, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; \n 1.  Having examined  Document WHC-09/33.COM/7B.Add, \n 2.  Recalling  Decision  32 COM 7B.89 , adopted at its 32d session (Quebec City, 2008), \n 3.  Notes  that the State Party regrets the demolition of the Pont de Pertuis which crossed the  bassin &agrave; flot , and has begun an inventory of the harbour remains that are attributes of the Outstanding Universal Value of the property; \n 4.  Requests  that in order to avoid any similar impacts to the Outstanding Universal Value of the property in future, consistent planning regulations be applied to the entire property including the  bassin &agrave; flot  and  also requests  the State Party to indicate its time frame and work programme for ensuring that this is achieved ; \n 5.  Regrets  that potential impacts of the replacement bridge for the Pont de Pertuis on the Outstanding Universal Value of the property were not assessed prior to construction and  further requests  that consideration be given to restoring the now narrowed passage channel to its original dimensions; \n 6.  Urges however  the State Party to reconsider the proposed Bacalan-Bastide bridge project and to study alternatives that do not include the transit of large vessels in front of the historic areas, allowing only smaller ships to access the harbour, in order to limit visual impact on the property, as well as to consider the relocation of the large vessel berthing area downstream of the proposed location of the bridge; \n 7.  Requests furthermore  the State Party to continue with studies aiming to limit the visual impact on the property; \n 8.  Further considers  that the facade of the former chai (wine warehouse), now part of the College Cassignol, should be kept and not demolished, as it contributes to the attributes of Outstanding Universal Value, and  also notes  that a building permit for its demolition has been refused and that a revised scheme is being prepared; and  requests also  the State Party that details of the new scheme be submitted to the World Heritage Centre for assessment by ICOMOS; \n 9.   Decides  not to continue to apply the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism to the property ; \n 10.  Finally requests  the State Party to submit to the World Heritage Centre, by  1 February 2010 , a report on the state of conservation of the property and on the results of the studies carried out taking into account the Committee\'s observations with respect to the points above, for examination by the World Heritage Committee at its 34th session in 2010.