The World Heritage Committee,   \n 1.  Having examined  Document  WHC-09/33.COM/7.2 , \n 2.  Recalling  Decisions  31 COM 5.2  and  32 COM 7.3  adopted at its 31st (Christchurch, 2007), and 32nd (Quebec City, 2008) sessions respectively, \n 3.  Notes  the report on the implementation of the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism; \n 4.  Takes note  of the operational aspects that have been refined by the World Heritage Centre and Advisory Bodies, as requested in Decision  31 COM 5.2 , in view of the requirements of this decision that the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism be activated in exceptional and specific cases; \n 5.  Also notes  that every decision to apply the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism will clearly state the nature of the monitoring mission and the frequency of reporting required and that each application of the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism will be reviewed annually; \n 6.  Decides  that the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism is designed to assist only in exceptional and specific cases as defined document  WHC-09/33.COM/7.2  paragraph 27 and predominantly restricted to the monitoring of properties inscribed on the List of World Heritage in Danger in cases where the World Heritage Committee fears the short-term loss of Outstanding Universal Value; \n 7.  Further decides  that if the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism is used as an alternative to established monitoring procedures such as the inclusion of properties on the List of World Heritage in Danger, it creates potential for ambiguity and may reduce the credibility of the existing reactive monitoring system and its procedures; \n 8.  Requests  the World Heritage Centre to provide to the Members of the World Heritage Committee an out of session report on each activity within the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism at the earliest opportunity, including an explanation of any proposed response or reaction, to enable the Chairperson to finalize a timely response to all issues raised; \n 9.  Sets  a ceiling on the budget for the operation of the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism at USD 50,000 per year, to include the costs of World Heritage Centre and Advisory Bodies in its operation, and  agrees  that each decision to apply the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism will be accompanied by a costing to ensure that the activity foreseen is within the available budget for the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism; \n 10.  Further notes  that Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism activities beyond this ceiling will require extra budgetary funding; \n 11.  Further requests  the World Heritage Centre to present to the World Heritage Committee at its 35th Session in 2011, an updated report on the effectiveness and efficiency of the Reinforced Monitoring Mechanism in the cases applied in view of assessing its formalization in the  Operational Guidelines .