The Conference of the Parties   1.  Noting  the entry into force of the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathians (Carpathian Convention) on 4 January 2006;  2.  Recalling Article 15  of the Convention on the establishment and functions of the Convention Secretariat;  3.  Recalling  also that the Rules of Procedure and the Financial Rules adopted at its First Meeting contain provisions as to the role and functions of the Convention Secretariat;  4.  Recalling  its Statement at its Second Meeting in which it invited United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to develop a proposal for administering the permanent Secretariat;  5.  Highly  appreciating the successful work of the interim Secretariat in Vienna, and expressing their gratitude to United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) for administering the interim Secretariat in an effective manner;  6.  Recalling  also Rule 1 of the Financial Rules for the Administration of the Trust Fund for the Convention, concerning the designation of a Trustee which shall establish and manage the Trust Fund;  7.  Recalling  that, in accordance with Rule 3 of the Financial Rules, the Trust Fund shall be used for funding the administration of the Convention, including the functioning of the Secretariat;  8.  Having  considered the note by the interim Secretariat on the administration and financial management of the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathians;  9.  Welcoming  the willingness of the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Program to assume responsibility for administering a Trust Fund for administering and meeting the objectives of the Convention and related Protocols, including the functioning of the Secretariat;  10.  Recalling  the decision by the Conference of the Plenipotentiaries that the Secretariat of the Carpathian Convention will be located in the Carpathian Region (Conference resolution, paragraph 4);  11.  Requests  the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to continue to carry out the Secretariat functions on interim basis in Vienna until permanent arrangements are made;  12. Agrees to establish a Trust Fund to cover the cost of administering and meeting the objectives of the Carpathian Convention and related Protocols, including the functioning of its Secretariat and adopts the terms of reference for the administration of the Trust Fund as contained in Annex 4 to this decision;  13.  Decides  that the Trust Fund cited above will contain:  a) (Assessed) Annual contributions from the Contracting Parties,  b) (Additional) Voluntary contributions from the Contracting Parties,  c) Contributions from Governments which are not Contracting Parties, governmental, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and programs, and the private sector,  14.  Decides  that the Programme of Work - Budget for 2012, 2013 and 2014 for the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathians as approved in decision COP3/13, para. 10 shall be used as the budget for the Trust Fund;  15.  Requests  the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Program to assume responsibility for administering the Trust Fund, and to delegate the necessary administrative authorities to the Head of the Secretariat in line with the Rules and Regulations of the United Nations;  16.  Decides  that each Party will contribute to the Trust Fund on a yearly basis in accordance with the attached scale of assessment as in Annex 21;  17.  Appeals  to Countries and organizations in a position to do so to make voluntary contributions, in cash and in kind, towards meeting the cost of the Trust Fund and other costs related to the implementation of the Convention and its Protocols;  18.  Reiterates  its firm intention and determination to reach an early agreement on the permanent arrangements of the Carpathian Convention Secretariat including composition and permanent location of the Secretariat, and requests the Secretariat on an interim basis to facilitate the decision making on these issues.  &nbsp;    &nbsp;