X.14 Butrint (Albania)  \n In response to the UNESCO-ICOMOS-Butrint Foundation assessment mission (October 1997), the Government of Albania has taken important decisions to strengthen management, planning and protection for the site. In August 1998, it created the Office for the World Heritage site of Butrint, for the coordination and implementation of actions at Butrint. In June 1999, it declared the surroundings of Butrint as a " National Park " in order to prevent illegal and inadequate developments; it is foreseen that the extended area will be incorporated in an even bigger Butrint Park. The Government, in collaboration with the Butrint Foundation, is developing a Master Plan for the extended site and specific research has been undertaken on the preservation of the baptistery. Finally, in July 1999, the Government submitted a request for the extension of the World Heritage site for examination by the Committee at its twentythird session. \n The Secretariat presented a report on the implementation of the emergency assistance of US$ 100,000. This assistance had been committed for more than fifty percent and additional proposals had been submitted by the State Party. \n The Committee took note of the progress made in the implementation of the programme of corrective measures for the World Heritage site of Butrint. It commended the Government of Albania for its important decisions to expand the protected area and to introduce institutional, management and planning arrangements for the site. It particularly welcomed the proposal for the extension of the World Heritage site. \n The Committee encouraged the State Party to pursue the implementation of the programme of corrective measures in response to the recommendations made by the UNESCOICOMOS- Butrint Foundation mission under the World Heritage Emergency Assistance allocated by the Committee at its twentyfirst session. \n The Committee decided to retain the property in the List of World Heritage in Danger. \n &nbsp;