1. To thank the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel for its outstanding reports and to thank the individual members of the Panel for their outstanding service and dedication;   2. To thank Mr. Masaaki Yamabe (Japan) for his long and outstanding efforts on behalf of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer as Senior Expert of the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel;   3. To endorse the appointment of Mr. Marco Gonzalez (Costa Rica) and Ms. Suely Carvalho (Brazil) as Senior Experts for a two-year and a four-year term, respectively;   4. To thank Mr. Lambert Kuijpers (the Netherlands) for his long and outstanding efforts on behalf of the Montreal Protocol as Co-Chair of the Refrigeration, Air-Conditioning and Heat Pumps Technical Options Committee;   5. To thank Mr. Paul Ashford (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) and Mr. Miguel Quintero (Colombia) for their long and outstanding efforts on behalf of the Montreal Protocol as Co-Chairs of the Flexible and Rigid Foams Technical Options Committee;   6. To thank Mr. Ashley Woodcock (United Kingdom) and Mr. Jose Pons Pons (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) for their long and outstanding efforts on behalf of the Montreal Protocol as Co-Chairs of the Medical Technical Options Committee;   7. To encourage the outgoing Co-Chairs of the relevant technical options committees to provide support to the new Co\xe2\x80\x91Chairs to ensure a smooth transition;   8. To disband the Chemicals Technical Options Committee and the Medical Technical Options Committee and to establish a new technical options committee to be called the Medical and Chemicals Technical Options Committee;   9. To endorse the appointment of Ms. Helen Tope (Australia) as Co-Chair of the Medical and Chemicals Technical Options Committee for a term of two years;   10. To endorse the appointment of Mr. Keiichi Ohnishi (Japan) and Mr. Jianjun Zhang (China) as Co-Chairs of the Medical and Chemicals Technical Options Committee for a term of four years;