The  Tenth Meeting of the Parties  decided in  Dec. X/24:      To note that Latvia acceded to the Montreal Protocol on 28 April 1995 and ratified the London and Copenhagen Amendments on 2 November 1998. The country is classified as a non-Article 5 Party under the Protocol and, for 1996, reported to positive consumption of 342 tonnes ODP of Annex A and B substances, none of which was for essential uses exempted by the Parties. As a consequence, in 1996, Latvia was in non-compliance with its control obligations under Articles 2A through 2E of the Montreal Protocol. Latvia also expresses a belief that this situation may continue through at least the year 2000, necessitating annual review by the Implementation Committee and the Parties until such time as Latvia comes into compliance.   To note with appreciation the fact that Latvia has made tremendous strides in coming into compliance with the Montreal Protocol. Although Latvia ratified the Protocol just three years ago, it has decreased its consumption steadily from 1986, when it was 6,558 tonnes, to 1993, when its consumption was 1,205 tonnes, to 1995, when its consumption was 711.5 tonnes to the present level of 342.8 tonnes. This significant reduction is a clear demonstration of Latvia\xe2\x80\x99s commitment to become a Party in full compliance with the Protocol. The Parties note with appreciation that Latvia has made efforts to achieve compliance through agreements with its industry, and through the application of a tax on imports of ozone-depleting substances. Latvia has also undertaken efforts to understand the disposition of halons that are currently deployed, and to stockpile halon from decommissioned uses in order to ensure availability to meet future critical uses. The Parties note these important undertakings, and point out that similar undertakings could be considered by other countries who are striving to comply with the provisions of the Protocol. The Parties also note that Latvia\xe2\x80\x99s submission and statements to the Implementation Committee indicate a commitment:     To observe the ban on the production and import of Annex A, Group II, substances imposed on 12 December 1997;   To limit consumption of Annex A, Group I, substances to no more than 100 metric tonnes in 1999; and   To ban the production and import of Annex A, Group I, and all Annex B substances by 1 January 2000;     To note Latvia\xe2\x80\x99s report that a majority of its remaining use of ozone-depleting substances is in the aerosol sector, a sector with alternatives that are available at a cost savings to users. The Parties further note the late time at which phase-out projects are being initiated. Accordingly, and considering the plan produced by Latvia, the Parties are hopeful that Latvia will be able to achieve a total phase-out of Annex A and B substances by 1 July 2001. Achievement of these commitments and goals will necessitate the strict application of import quota restrictions on an annual basis to ensure phased reductions in consumption;   To closely monitor the progress of Latvia with regard to the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances, particularly towards meeting the specific commitments noted above. In this regard, to request that Latvia submit a complete copy of its country programme, and subsequent updates, if any, to the Ozone Secretariat. To the degree that Latvia is working towards and meeting the specific time-based commitments noted above and continues to report data annually demonstrating a decrease in imports and consumption, Latvia should continue to be treated in the same manner as a Party in good standing. In this regard, Latvia should continue to receive international assistance to enable it to meet these commitments in accordance with item A of the indicative list of measures that might be taken by a meeting of the Parties in respect of non-compliance. However, through this decision, the Parties caution Latvia, in accordance with item B of the indicative list of measures, that in the event that the country fails to meet the commitments noted above in times specified, the Parties shall consider measures, consistent with item C of the indicative list of measure. These measures could include the possibility of actions that may be available under Article 4, designed to ensure that the supply of CFCs and halons that is the subject of non-compliance is ceased, and that exporting Parties are not contributing to a continuing situation of non-compliance.