The  Fifteenth Meeting of the Parties  decided in  Dec. XV/31:      To note that Botswana ratified the Montreal Protocol on 4 December 1991, and the London and Copenhagen Amendments on 13 May 1997. Botswana is classified as a Party operating under Article 5, paragraph 1, of the Protocol and had its country programme approved by the Executive Committee in 1994. Since approval of the country programme, the Executive Committee has approved $438,340 from the Multilateral Fund to enable compliance in accordance with Article 10 of the Protocol;   To note also that Botswana\xe2\x80\x99s baseline for the controlled substance in Annex E is 0.1 ODP-tonnes. It reported consumption of 0.6 ODP-tonnes of the controlled substance in Annex E in 2002. As a consequence, for 2002 Botswana was in non-compliance with its obligations under Article 2H of the Montreal Protocol;   To note with appreciation Botswana\xe2\x80\x99s submission of its plan of action to ensure a prompt return to compliance with the control measures for the controlled substance in Annex E, and to note further that, under the plan, without prejudice to the operation of the financial mechanism of the Montreal Protocol, Botswana specifically commits itself:     To reducing methyl bromide consumption from 0.6 ODP-tonnes in 2002 as follows:     To 0.4 ODP-tonnes in 2003;   To 0.2 ODP-tonnes in 2004;   To phasing out methyl bromide consumption by 1 January 2005, as provided by the plan for reduction and phase-out of methyl bromide consumption, save for critical uses that may be authorized by the Parties;     To establishing a system for licensing imports and exports of methyl bromide, including quotas;     To note that the measures listed in paragraph 3 above should enable Botswana to return to compliance by 2005, and to urge Botswana to work with the relevant implementing agencies to implement the plan of action and phase out consumption of the controlled substance in Annex E;   To monitor closely the progress of Botswana with regard to the phase-out of methyl bromide. To the degree that Botswana is working towards and meeting the specific Protocol control measures, it should continue to be treated in the same manner as a Party in good standing. In that regard, Botswana should continue to receive international assistance to enable it to meet those commitments in accordance with item A of the indicative list of measures that may be taken by a Meeting of the Parties in respect of non-compliance. Through the present decision, however, the Parties caution Botswana, in accordance with item B of the indicative list of measures, that in the event that it fails to return to compliance in a timely manner the Parties will consider measures consistent with item C of the indicative list of measures. Those measures may include the possibility of actions available under Article 4, such as ensuring that the supply of methyl bromide (that is, the subject of non-compliance) is ceased and that exporting Parties are not contributing to a continuing situation of non-compliance.