The  Tenth Meeting of the Parties  decided in  Dec. X/27:      To note that Ukraine ratified the London Amendment on 6 February 1997. The country is classified as a non-Article 5 Party under the Protocol and, for 1996, reported positive consumption of 1,470 ODP tonnes of Annex A and B controlled substances, none of which was for essential uses exempted by the Parties. As a consequence, in 1996, Ukraine was in non-compliancewith its control obligations under Articles 2A through 2E of the Montreal Protocol. Ukraine also expresses a belief that this situation will continue through at least the year 2000, necessitating annual review by the Implementation Committee and the Parties until such time as Ukraine comes into compliance;   To express great concern about the non-compliance of Ukraine, as well as the significant increase in consumption of ozone-depleting substances in Ukraine from 1995 to 1996, when total consumption doubled from 767 to 1,470 ODP tonnes. The Parties note the commendable actions taken by Ukraine in working with customs and industry to monitor imports and improve the accuracy of the data reported to the Ozone Secretariat. After reviewing Ukraine\xe2\x80\x99s submission to the Implementation Committee, the Parties note that the Ukraine, through its acceptance of this decision, specifically commits:     To a phase-out of the consumption of Annex A and B substances by 1 January 2002 (save for essential uses authorized by the Parties);     Ukraine notes, however, that there may be difficulty in phasing out consumption in the domestic refrigeration sector;   To urge Ukraine to work with relevant Implementing Agencies to shift current consumption to non-ozone-depleting alternatives, and to quickly develop a plan for managing existing supplies of CFCs as well as training in the refrigeration sector to encourage recovery and recycling. The Parties note that these actions are made all the more urgent due to the expected closure of CFC and halon-2402 production capacity in its major source (Russian Federation) by the year 2000, and the very limited international availability of halon-2402 from other sources. Noting Ukraine\xe2\x80\x99s obvious commitment to the Montreal Protocol, it is hopeful that the country will be able to achieve a total phase-out of Annex A and B substances by 1 January 2002. In so stating, the Parties noted but specifically rejected a request by Ukraine to allow for continuous imports until 2010 for servicing existing refrigeration equipment. The Parties, in so doing, note that achieving a phase-out by 1 January 2002 may necessitate that Ukraine increase the recovery of existing ozone-depleting substances or the import of recycled material, and urge Ukraine to plan carefully for its future refrigerant servicing needs and invite the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel to help in this endeavour;   To closely monitor the progress of Ukraine with regard to the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances, particularly towards meeting the specific commitments noted above. In this regard, the Parties request that Ukraine submit a complete copy of its country programme, and subsequent updates, if any, to the Ozone Secretariat. To the degree that Ukraine is working towards and meeting the specific time-based commitments noted above and continues to report data annually demonstrating a decrease in imports and consumption, Ukraine should continue to be treated in the same manner as a Party in good standing. In this regard, Ukraine should continue to receive international assistance to enable it to meet these commitments in accordance with item A of the indicative list of measures that might be taken by a meeting of the Parties in respect of non-compliance. However, through this decision, the Parties caution Ukraine, in accordance with item B of the indicative list of measures, that in the event that the country fails to meet the commitments noted above in the times specified, the Parties shall consider measures, consistent with item C of the indicative list of measures. These measures could include the possibility of actions that may be available under Article 4, designed to ensure that the supply of CFCs and halons that is the subject of non-compliance is ceased, and that exporting Parties are not contributing to a continuing situation of non-compliance.