XI.1  The Secretariat presented the activities detailed in Document WHC-99/CONF.209/15 on World Heritage Documentation, Information and Education Activities. \n  XI.2  The Director of the Centre introduced this item by recalling the new orientations of the Strategic Plan for Documentation, Information and Education approved by the Committee in 1998 at its twenty-second session. He further recalled the key strategic objectives set forth in the Strategic Plan. He stressed the need to strengthen the documentation function of the Centre, prepare new information materials with particular emphasis on state of conservation giving priority to sites inscribed on the List of World Heritage in Danger. He further emphasized the importance of promoting awareness through education and media related activities. \n  XI.3  In an audio visual presentation, the Secretariat presented the five chapters of the proposed programme for 2000 to the Committee : I. Documentation, II. Information, III. Internet and WHIN, IV. Self-financing programme for partnerships with the media and publishers and V. Education. \n  XI.4  The Chairperson thanked the Secretariat for their clear presentation. The Delegate of Hungary expressed his strong support of the World Heritage Centre\'s Documentation and Information Unit, recognizing the earnest dedication of this small team. He made reference to UNESCO\'s Special Project for Young People\'s Participation in World Heritage Preservation and Promotion and confirmed his country\'s interest in this programme. In noting the success of the Centre\'s Internet site, he expressed his view that there is a tremendous overlapping in the World Heritage Centre\'s information activities. He called attention to the urgent need for a long-term information strategy aimed at consolidating activities under this Chapter with the activities foreseen under the Information Management System. \n  XI.5  The Committee adopted the programme and its budget without further discussion. \n &nbsp;