Recalling  decision XIX/5 on financial matters,   Recognizing  that voluntary contributions are an essential complement for the effective implementation of the Montreal Protocol,   Welcoming  the continued excellent management by the Secretariat of the finances of the Trust Fund for the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer,  1. To take note with appreciation of the financial statement of the Trust Fund for the biennium 2006\xe2\x80\x932007 ended 31 December 2007 and the report by the Secretariat on the actual expenditures for 2007 as compared to the approvals for that year;   2. To approve the revised 2008 budget for the Trust Fund in the amount of $4,679,658, and the 2009 budget in the amount of $5,258,828 and to take note of the proposed budget of $4,843,983 for 2010, as set out in annex IV to the report of the eighth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer and the Twentieth Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer;   3. To authorize the Secretariat to draw down $981,895 in 2009 and note the proposed drawdown of $567,050 in 2010;  4. To approve, as a consequence of the draw-downs referred to in paragraph 3 above, total contributions to be paid by the Parties of $4,276,933 for 2009 and to note the contributions of $4,276,933 for 2010, as set out in annex V to the report of the eighth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer and the Twentieth Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer;  5. Also to approve that the contributions of individual Parties for 2009 shall be listed in annex V to the report of the eighth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer and the Twentieth Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer;  6. To authorize the Secretariat to maintain a constant operating cash reserve at 15 per cent of the estimated annual planned expenditures that will be used to meet the final expenditures under the Trust Fund;  7. To express its concern over delays in payment of agreed contributions by Parties, contrary to the provisions in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the terms of reference for the administration of the Trust Fund for the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer;  8. To urge all Parties to pay their contributions promptly and in full and further to urge Parties that have not done so to pay their contributions for prior years as soon as possible;  9. To encourage Parties, non-Parties, and other stakeholders to contribute financially and with other means to assist members of the three assessment panels and their subsidiary bodies with their continued participation in the assessment activities under the Protocol;  10. To invite Parties to notify the Secretariat of the Montreal Protocol of all contributions made to the Trust Fund at the time such payments are made;  11. To request the Executive Secretary, in accordance with rule 14 of the rules of procedure, to provide Parties with an indication of the financial implications of draft decisions which cannot be met from existing resources within the budget of the Trust Fund;  12. To request the Secretariat of the Montreal Protocol to ensure the implementation of Secretariat-related decisions adopted by the Meeting of the Parties as approved, within the budgets and the availability of financial resources in the Trust Fund;  13. To request the Secretariat to inform the Open-ended Working Group of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on all sources of income received, including the reserve and fund balance and interest, as well as actual and projected expenditures and commitments, and to request the Executive Secretary to provide an indicative report on all expenditures against budget lines;  14. To request the Open-ended Working Group to keep under review the financial information provided by the Secretariat, including the timeliness and transparency of that information;  15. To request the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme to extend the Trust Fund until 31 December 2015;