The  Fifteenth Meeting of the Parties  decided in  Dec. XV/44:      To note that Uruguay ratified the Montreal Protocol on 8 January 1991, the London Amendment on 16 November 1993, the Copenhagen Amendment on 3 July 1997, the Montreal Amendment on 16 February 2000 and the Beijing Amendment on 9 September 2003. The country is classified as a Party operating under Article 5, paragraph 1, of the Protocol and had its country programme approved by the Executive Committee in 1993. Since approval of the country programme, the Executive Committee has approved $4,856,042 from the Multilateral Fund to enable compliance in accordance with Article 10 of the Protocol;   To note also that Uruguay\xe2\x80\x99s baseline for the controlled substance in Annex E is 11.2 ODP-tonnes. It reported consumption of 17.7 ODP-tonnes for the controlled substance in Annex E in 2002. As a consequence, for 2002 Uruguay was in non-compliance with its obligations under Article 2H of the Montreal Protocol;   To note with appreciation Uruguay\xe2\x80\x99s submission of its plan of action to ensure a prompt return to compliance with the control measures for the controlled substance in Annex E, and to note further that, under the plan, Uruguay specifically commits itself:     To reducing methyl bromide consumption from 17.7 ODP-tonnes in 2002 as follows:     To 12 ODP-tonnes in 2003;   To 4 ODP-tonnes in 2004;   To phasing out methyl bromide consumption by 1 January 2005, as provided in the plan for reduction and phase-out of methyl bromide consumption, save for critical uses that may be authorized by the Parties;     To monitoring its system for licensing imports and exports of ODS, including quotas;     To note that the measures listed in paragraph 3 above should enable Uruguay to return to compliance by 2004, and to urge Uruguay to work with the relevant implementing agencies to implement the plan of action and phase out consumption of the controlled substance in Annex E;   To monitor closely the progress of Uruguay with regard to the implementation of its plan of action and the phase-out of methyl bromide. To the degree that Uruguay is working towards and meeting the specific Protocol control measures, it should continue to be treated in the same manner as a Party in good standing. In that regard, Uruguay should continue to receive international assistance to enable it to meet those commitments in accordance with item A of the indicative list of measures that may be taken by a Meeting of the Parties in respect of non-compliance. Through the present decision, however, the Parties caution Uruguay, in accordance with item B of the indicative list of measures, that in the event that it fails to return to compliance in a timely manner the Parties will consider measures consistent with item C of the indicative list of measures. Those measures may include the possibility of actions available under Article 4, such as ensuring that the supply of methyl bromide (that is, the subject of non-compliance) is ceased and that exporting Parties are not contributing to a continuing situation of non-compliance.