The  Fifteenth Meeting of the Parties  decided in  Dec. XV/33:      To note that the Democratic Republic of the Congo ratified the Montreal Protocol and the London and Copenhagen Amendments on 30 November 1994. The Democratic Republic of the Congo is classified as a Party operating under Article 5, paragraph 1, of the Protocol and had its country programme approved by the Executive Committee in 1999. Since approval of the country programme, the Executive Committee has approved $1,037,518 from the Multilateral Fund to enable compliance in accordance with Article 10 of the Protocol;   To note also that the baseline of the Democratic Republic of the Congo for Annex A, group II substances is 218.67 ODP-tonnes. It reported consumption of 492 ODP-tonnes of Annex A, group II substances in 2002. As a consequence, for 2002 the Democratic Republic of the Congo was in non-compliance with its obligations under Article 2B of the Montreal Protocol;   To request the Democratic Republic of the Congo to submit to the Implementation Committee as a matter of urgency, for consideration at its next meeting, a plan of action with time-specific benchmarks to ensure a prompt return to compliance. The Democratic Republic of the Congo may wish to consider including in that plan of action the establishment of import quotas to freeze imports at baseline levels and support the phase-out schedule, a ban on imports of ODS-using equipment, and policy and regulatory instruments that will ensure progress in achieving the phase-out;   To monitor closely the progress of the Democratic Republic of the Congo with regard to the implementation of its plan of action and the phase-out of halons. To the degree that the Democratic Republic of the Congo is working towards and meeting the specific Protocol control measures, it should continue to be treated in the same manner as a Party in good standing. In that regard, the Democratic Republic of the Congo should continue to receive international assistance to enable it to meet those commitments in accordance with item A of the indicative list of measures that may be taken by a Meeting of the Parties in respect of non-compliance. Through the present decision, however, the Parties caution the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in accordance with item B of the indicative list of measures, that in the event that it fails to return to compliance in a timely manner, the Parties will consider measures consistent with item C of the indicative list of measures. Those measures may include the possibility of actions available under Article 4, such as ensuring that the supply of halons (that is, the subject of non-compliance) is ceased and that exporting Parties are not contributing to a continuing situation of non-compliance.