Recalling  that the terms of reference for the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel established in decision XXIV/8 provide for a limited number of senior experts for specific expertise not covered by the Panel\xe2\x80\x99s co-chairs or technical options committee co-chairs;   1. To thank the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel for its outstanding reports, and also to thank the individual members of the Panel for their outstanding service and dedication;   2. Also to thank Mohamed Besri (Morocco) for his long and outstanding efforts on behalf of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer as Co-Chair of the Methyl Bromide Technical Options Committee;   3. Further to thank Ashley Woodcock (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) for his outstanding efforts on behalf of the Montreal Protocol as interim Co-Chair of the Flexible and Rigid Foams Technical Options Committee;   4. To endorse the appointment of Ian Porter (Australia) and Marta Pizano (Colombia) as Co-Chairs of the Methyl Bromide Technical Options Committee for an additional term of four years;   5. Also to endorse the appointment of Helen Tope (Australia) as Co-Chair of the Medical and Chemicals Technical Options Committee for an additional term of four years;   6. Further to endorse the appointment of Roberto Peixoto (Brazil) as Co-Chair of the Refrigeration, Air-Conditioning and Heat Pumps Technical Options Committee for an additional term of four years;   7. To endorse the appointment of Sergey Kopylov (Russian Federation) as Co-Chair of the Halons Technical Options Committee for an additional term of four years;   8. Also to endorse the appointment of Helen Walter-Terrinoni (United States of America) as Co-Chair of the Flexible and Rigid Foams Technical Options Committee for a term of four years;   9. Further to endorse the appointment of Sidi Menad Si Ahmed (Algeria) as senior expert of the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel for a term of one year;   10. To endorse the appointment of Shiqiu Zhang (China) as senior expert of the Panel for a term of one year;   11. Also to endorse the appointment of Marco Gonz\xc3\xa1lez (Costa Rica) as senior expert of the Panel for a term of one year;   12. Further to endorse the appointment of Mohamed Besri (Morocco) as senior expert of the Panel for a term of one year;   13. To encourage parties to consult one another on potential nominations of senior experts and to refer to the matrix of expertise needed prior to making nominations for appointments of senior experts to the Panel;   14. To request the Secretariat to add to the agenda for the fortieth meeting of the Open-ended Working Group consideration of senior expert nominations from parties;