Recalling  decision XXVIII/16 on financial reports and budgets for the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer,    Taking note  of the financial report on the Trust Fund for the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer for the fiscal year 2016,  [4]      Recognizing  that voluntary contributions, once agreed upon, are an essential complement for the effective implementation of the Montreal Protocol,    Welcoming  the continued efficient management by the Secretariat of the finances of the Trust Fund,   1. To express its appreciation to the Government of Canada for the generous hosting of and contribution towards the joint eleventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer and the Twenty-Ninth Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, and to allocate 50 per cent of that contribution, entitled \xe2\x80\x9cContribution for the organization of the joint Twenty-Ninth Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol and the eleventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Vienna Convention\xe2\x80\x9d, to the Trust Fund for the Montreal Protocol to be reflected in the financial statement for 2017;   2. To approve the revised budget for 2017 in the amount of $5,145,954 and the budget of $5,546,722 for 2018, as set out in annex IV to the present report;   3. Also to approve the contributions to be paid by the parties of $5,546,722 for 2018, and to note the contributions of $5,594,470 for 2019, as set out in annex V to the present report;   4. That the contributions of individual parties for 2018 and indicative contributions for 2019 shall be as listed in annex V to the present report;   5. To reaffirm a working capital reserve at a level of 15 per cent of the annual budget to be used to meet the final expenditures under the Trust Fund;   6. To encourage parties, non-parties and other stakeholders to contribute financially and through other means to assist members of the three assessment panels and their subsidiary bodies with a view to ensuring their continued participation in assessment activities under the Montreal Protocol;   7. To note with concern that a number of parties have not paid their contributions for 2017 and prior years, and to urge those parties to pay both their outstanding contributions and their future contributions promptly and in full;   8. To request the Executive Secretary, and to invite the President of the Bureau of the Meeting of the Parties, to enter into discussions with any party whose contributions are outstanding for two or more years with a view to finding a way forward, and to request the Executive Secretary to report to the Thirtieth Meeting of the Parties on the outcome of those discussions;   9. To further consider how to address outstanding contributions to the Trust Fund at the Thirtieth Meeting of the Parties, and to request the Executive Secretary to continue to publish and regularly update information on the status of contributions to the Trust Fund;   10. To request the Secretariat to ensure the full utilization of programme support costs available to it in 2018 and later years, and where possible, to offset those costs against the administrative components of the approved budget;   11. Also to request the Secretariat to indicate in future financial reports of the Trust Fund the amounts of cash on hand in the section entitled \xe2\x80\x9cTotal reserves and fund balances\xe2\x80\x9d, in addition to contributions that have not yet been received;   12. To request the Executive Secretary to prepare results-based budgets and work programmes for the years 2019 and 2020, presenting two budget scenarios and work programmes based on the projected needs for the biennium in:   (a) A zero nominal growth scenario;   (b) A scenario based on further recommended adjustments to the above-mentioned scenario and the added costs or savings related thereto.      [4]  UNEP/OzL.Pro.29/4/Add.1.