The  Fifteenth Meeting of the Parties  decided in  Dec. XV/41:      To note that Qatar ratified the Montreal Protocol and the London and Copenhagen amendments on 22 January 1996. Qatar is classified as a Party operating under Article 5, paragraph 1, of the Protocol and had its country programme approved by the Executive Committee in 1999. Since approval of the country programme, the Executive Committee has approved $698,849 from the Multilateral Fund to enable compliance in accordance with Article 10 of the Protocol;   To note also that Qatar has failed to report data for consumption of Annex A, group I substances for the control period from 1 July 2001 to 31 December 2002 and has reported annual data for 2002 which is above its requirement for a freeze in consumption. In the absence of further clarification, Qatar is presumed to be in non-compliance with the control measures under the Protocol;   To urge Qatar, accordingly, to report data for the control period from 1 July 2001 to 31 December 2002 as a matter of urgency;   To note further that Qatar\xe2\x80\x99s baseline for Annex A, group II substances is 10.65 ODP-tonnes. It reported consumption of 13.6 ODP-tonnes of Annex A, group II substances in 2002. As a consequence, for 2002 Qatar was in non-compliance with its obligations under Article 2B of the Montreal Protocol;   To request Qatar to submit to the Implementation Committee, for consideration at its next meeting, a plan of action with time-specific benchmarks to ensure a prompt return to compliance. Qatar may wish to consider including in that plan of action the establishment of import quotas to freeze imports at baseline levels and support the phase-out schedule, a ban on imports of ODS-using equipment, and policy and regulatory instruments that will ensure progress in achieving the phase-out;   To monitor closely the progress of Qatar with regard to the phase-out of CFCs and halons. To the degree that Qatar is working towards and meeting the specific Protocol control measures, it should continue to be treated in the same manner as a Party in good standing. In that regard, Qatar should continue to receive international assistance to enable it to meet those commitments in accordance with item A of the indicative list of measures that may be taken by a Meeting of the Parties in respect of non-compliance. Through the present decision, however, the Parties caution Qatar, in accordance with item B of the indicative list of measures, that in the event that it fails to return to compliance in a timely manner the Parties will consider measures consistent with item C of the indicative list of measures. Those measures may include the possibility of actions available under Article 4, such as ensuring that the supply of CFCs and halons (that is, the subject of non-compliance) is ceased and that exporting Parties are not contributing to a continuing situation of non-compliance.