The  Tenth Meeting of the Parties  decided in  Dec. X/20:      To note that Azerbaijan ratified the Montreal Protocol and the London and Copenhagen Amendments on 21 June 1996. The country is classified as a non-Article 5 Party under the Protocol and, for 1996, reported positive consumption of 962 ODP tonnes of Annex A and B substances, none of which was for essential uses exempted by the Parties. As a consequence, in 1996, Azerbaijan was in non-compliance with its control obligations under Articles 2A through 2E of the Montreal Protocol. Azerbaijan also expresses a belief that this situation will continue through at least the year 2000, necessitating annual review by the Implementation Committee and the Parties until such time as Azerbaijan comes into compliance;   To express great concern about Azerbaijan\xe2\x80\x99s non-compliance and to note that Azerbaijan only very recently assumed the obligations of the Montreal Protocol, having ratified it in 1996. It is with that understanding that the Parties note, after reviewing the country programme and submissions of Azerbaijan (which was prepared with UNEP assistance), that Azerbaijan specifically commits:     To a phase-out of CFCs by 1 January 2001 (save for essential uses authorized by the Parties);   To establish, by 1 January 1999, a system for licensing imports and exports of ODS;   To establish a system for licensing operators in the refrigeration-servicing sector;   To tax the imports of ozone-depleting substances, to enable it to ensure that it meets the year 2001 phase-out;   To a ban, by 1 January 2001, on all imports of halons; and   To consider by 1999, a ban on the import of ODS-based equipment;     That the measures listed in paragraph 2 above should enable Azerbaijan to achieve the virtual phase out of CFCs, and a complete phase-out of halons by 1 January 2001. In this regard, the Parties urge Azerbaijan to work with relevant Implementing Agencies to shift current consumption to non-ozone-depleting alternatives, and to quickly develop a system for managing banked halon for any continuing critical uses. The Parties note that these actions are made all the more urgent due to the expected closure of CFC and halon-2402 production capacity in its major source (Russian Federation) by the year 2000, and the very limited international availability of halon-2402 from other sources;   To closely monitor the progress of Azerbaijan with regard to the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances, particularly towards meeting the specific commitments noted above. In this regard, the Parties request that Azerbaijan submit a complete copy of its country programme, and subsequent updates, if any, to the Ozone Secretariat. To the degree that Azerbaijan is working towards and meeting the specific time-based commitments noted above and continues to report data annually demonstrating a decrease in imports and consumption, Azerbaijan should continue to be treated in the same manner as a Party in good standing. In this regard, Azerbaijan should continue to receive international assistance to enable it to meet these commitments in accordance with item A of the indicative list of measures that might be taken by a Meeting of the Parties in respect of non-compliance. However, through this decision, the Parties caution Azerbaijan, in accordance with item B of the indicative list of measures, that in the event that the country fails to meet the commitments noted above in the times specified, the Parties shall consider measures, consistent with item C of the indicative list of measures. These measures could include the possibility of actions that may be available under Article 4, designed to ensure that the supply of CFCs and halons that is the subject of non-compliance is ceased, and that exporting Parties are not contributing to a continuing situation of non-compliance.