The  Tenth Meeting of the Parties  decided in  Dec. X/23:      To note that Estonia acceded to the Montreal Protocol on 17 October 1996. Estonia is classified as a non-Article 5 Party under the Protocol and, for 1996, reported positive consumption of 36.5 ODP tonnes of Annex A and B substances, none of which was for essential uses exempted by the Parties. As a consequence, in 1996, Estonia was in non-compliance with its control obligations under Articles 2A through 2E of the Montreal Protocol. Estonia also expresses a belief that this situation will continue through at least the year 2000, necessitating annual review by the Implementation Committee and the Parties until such time as Estonia comes into compliance;   To note with appreciation Estonia\xe2\x80\x99s significant strides in coming into compliance with the Montreal Protocol. Estonia decreased its consumption steadily from an estimated 131 ODP tonnes in 1995 to 36.5 tonnes in 1996. This significant reduction is a clear demonstration of Estonia\xe2\x80\x99s determination to achieve a complete phase-out according to its schedule. In response to a request from the Ozone Secretariat, Estonia submitted interim reductions targets for the phase-out. In this phase-out plan with interim benchmarks, Estonia commits:     To reduce consumption by 1 January 1999 to no more than 23 ODP tonnes for Annex A and B substances;   To completely phase out consumption of Annex B substances by 1 January 2000;   To reduce consumption by 1 January 2000 to no more than 14 ODP tonnes of Annex A substances;   To reduce consumption of CFC-12 to all but 1 tonne in 2001;   To a complete phase out of Annex A substances by 1 January 2002; and   To establish, for 1999, a harmonized system for monitoring and controlling imports of ozone-depleting substances;     To urge Estonia, in order to assist it in meeting its commitments, to work with relevant Implementing Agencies to shift current consumption to non-ozone-depleting alternatives, and to quickly develop a system for managing recovered refrigerants and halon for any continuing critical uses. The Parties note that these actions are made all the more urgent due to the expected closure of CFC and halon-2402 production capacity in its major source (Russian Federation) by the year 2000, and the very limited international availability of halon-2402 from other sources.   To closely monitor the progress of Estonia with regard to the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances, particularly towards meeting the specific commitments noted above. In this regard, the Parties request that Estonia submit a complete copy of its country programme, and subsequent updates, if any, to the Ozone Secretariat. The Parties urge Estonia to ratify the London and Copenhagen Amendments. To the degree that Estonia is working towards and meeting the specific time-based commitments noted above and continues to report data annually demonstrating a decrease in imports and consumption, Estonia should continue to be treated in the same manner as a Party in good standing. In this regard, Estonia should, to the degree consistent with relevant assistance requirements, receive international assistance to enable it to meet these commitments in accordance with item A of the indicative list of measures that might be taken by a meeting of the Parties in respect of non-compliance. However, through this decision the Parties caution Estonia, in accordance with item B of the indicative list of measures, that in the event that the country fails to meet the commitments noted above in the times specified, the Parties shall consider measures, consistent with item C of the indicative list of measures. These measures could include the possibility of actions that may be available under Article 4, designed to ensure that the supply of CFCs and halons that is the subject of non-compliance is ceased, and that exporting Parties are not contributing to a continuing situation of non-compliance.