The Seventh General Assembly of States Parties to the Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage met in Paris, on 9 and 13 November 1989, during the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference.      Eighty-eight of the hundred and eleven States which were Parties to the Convention as at 30 October 1989 and which thus had the right to vote were represented at the meeting.      Representatives of thirteen States not Parties to the Convention participated in the General Assembly as observers. Representatives of four non-governmental organizations also attended the meeting in an observer capacity.      The List of Participants to the General Assembly is given in Annex I of this document.      In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Secretariat of the Assembly was ensured by the Secretariat of Unesco.      In his opening speech, the Assistant Director-General for Culture and Communication, representing the Director-General, drew attention to the progress achieved in the implementation of the World Heritage Convention. He informed the Assembly that since the last General Assembly the number of States Parties had increased from 96 to 111 and the number of cultural and natural sites inscribed on the World Heritage List had risen from 247 to 315. He added that the assistance provided to States Parties under the World Heritage Fund for the preservation of their sites inscribed on the List was the most concrete expression of the system of solidarity created through the Convention. Since the creation of the World Heritage Fund, technical co-operation has been financed for an amount of $7,465,000, of which $3,000,000 have been allocated for the training of specialists. In this respect, he recalled that the assistance provided was dependent on the contributions made by States Parties. He underlined the particularly high number of contributions due for the period 1988-1989 and appealed to the States Parties to guarantee the regular payment of contributions that will enable the development of international assistance to States Parties. He then reminded the Assembly of the solutions that the World Heritage Committee, through its Bureau, had deemed appropriate to suggest to the General Assembly in order to ensure the effective rotation of members on the Committee.