VII.14 Butrinti (Albania)  \n On the basis of a joint UNESCO-ICOMOS-Butrint Foundation assessment mission (October 1997), the Committee at its twentyfirst session decided to inscribe Butrinti on the List of World Heritage in Danger and to allocate US$ 100,000 as emergency assistance for the implementation of remedial actions. \n The Secretariat reported that arrangements had been made with the Albanian authorities for the implementation of concrete actions, such as an inventory and publication of stolen archaeological objects, purchase of water pumps, improvement of fences, the construction of sanitary facilities and repairs at the museum building and the storage facilities. It also advised the Albanian authorities on the redefinition of the boundaries of the World Heritage site and the establishment of a buffer zone. The Butrint Foundation organized in April 1998 a workshop to define the guidelines for a master plan and in September 1998 on the presentation and preservation of the baptistery and its extremely well preserved mosaics. The Government of Greece made a high-level expert available for the workshop. \n Consultations are underway with the European Union, The World Bank and public and private organizations, with a view to incorporate the planning for Butrinti in local and regional planning schemes. \n The Government of Albania decided in August 1998 to create an Office for the Protection of the World Heritage Site of Butrinti for co-ordination and implementation of coherent actions for the site. \n The Committee commended the Albanian authorities and collaborating institutions on the progress made in the implementation of the recommendations of the 1997 assessment mission. It congratulated the Government of Albania for the decision to create the Office for the Protection of the World Heritage Site of Butrinti and encouraged the authorities to provide it with adequate authority and human and financial resources. \n The Committee confirmed that it places particular importance on the redefinition of the boundaries and buffer zone of the site, as well as the preparation of a management and master plan. The Committee requested the Secretariat to submit a report on the progress made in the implementation of the recommendations of the 1997 assessment mission to its twenty-third session. The Committee decided to retain Butrinti on the List of World Heritage in Danger. \n &nbsp;