1. To thank the Technology and Assessment Panel for its outstanding reports and to thank the individual members of the panel for their outstanding service and dedication;   2. To thank Mr. Stephen O. Andersen for his long and outstanding service as Co-Chair of the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as he transitions to a role as a Senior Expert of the Panel;   3. To endorse the selection of Mr. Andersen as a Senior Expert of the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel for a term of one year in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   4. To endorse the selection of Ms. Bella Maranion as Co-Chair of the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   5. To endorse the reappointment of Mr. Lambert J. M. Kuijpers as Co-Chair of the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel and Co-Chair of the Refrigeration, Air Conditioning and Heat Pumps Technical Options Committee for a term of two years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   6. To endorse the reappointment of Mr. Daniel P. Verdonik to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as Co-Chair of the Halons Technical Options Committee for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   7. To endorse the reappointment of Mr. Ashley Woodcock to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as Co-Chair of the Medical Technical Options Committee for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   8. To endorse the reappointment of Mr. David Catchpole to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as Co-Chair of the Halons Technical Options Committee for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   9. To endorse the reappointment of Mr. Paul Ashford to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as Co-Chair of the Flexible and Rigid Foams Technical Options Committee for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;