XIV.2 Requests for International Assistance  \n The Bureau met during the twenty-fourth session of the Committee after the budget for Technical Assistance for year 2001 under Chapter III was approved, to take decisions or recommend decisions to the Committee concerning international assistance requests. The attention of the Committee and Bureau was drawn to document WHC-2000/CONF.204/17 and 6 requests for decision by the Committee and 14 requests for decision by the Bureau were examined and took the following decisions. All decisions taken by the Bureau and Committee concerning these requests are listed below: \n &nbsp; \n  (iii) Training   \n  Natural Heritage  \n  No.  2001-458  Cameroon  \n "Three fellowships for African specialists in Protected Area/Wildlife Management for the Academic Year 2001 - 2002" \n Following the recommendation of the Bureau, the Committee  approved  a sum of  US$ 45,000  for three fellowships for African specialists in Protected Area/Wildlife Management for the academic biennium 2001 - 2003 at the Gaorua School for Training Specialists in Wildlife, Cameroon. \n  No.  2001-431  Malawi  \n "Capacity Building for Lake Malawi National Park" \n In accordance with the recommendation of the twenty-fourth session of the Bureau, the Committee  approved  a sum of  US$ 37,094  for the proposed activity. \n  No . 2001 - 457  United Republic of Tanzania  \n "Three fellowships for African specialists in Protected Area/Wildlife Management for the Academic Year 2001 - 2002" \n The Bureau  approved  a sum of  US$ 30,000  for supporting three fellowships at Mweka College of African Wildlife Management for the academic year 2001-2002 \n &nbsp; \n  Cultural Heritage  \n  No:  2001-445  Pakistan  \n "Training Course for physical, chemical and biological technical analysis of the problems related to the conservation of brick &amp; stone archaeological monuments" \n The Bureau  approved  an amount of  US$ 22,000 , subject to the State Party implementing this activity as a sub-regional activity, in close co-operation with ICCROM, the UNESCO Bangkok Office and the World Heritage Centre. \n  No:  2001-442  Norway  \n "Culture, Heritage Management and Tourism: Models for Co-operation among Stakeholders. Workshop to elaborate models of co-operation" \n The Bureau  stated  that such requests should be submitted through the host country or with their endorsement. \n While the Bureau  expressed its appreciation  for the initiative of the Government of Norway and the UNESCO Regional Advisor for Culture in the Asia-Pacific Region, it  requested  the host country to submit the request in consultation with Norway, the UNESCO Regional Advisor for Culture in the Asia-Pacific and the World Heritage Centre. \n  No.  2001-426  Russian Federation  \n "International Workshop on the preservation and conservation of wooden structures on the example of the restoration project of the Church of the Transfiguration of the Kizhi Pogost" \n  No.:  2001-460  Russian Federation  \n "International Training Workshop for decision-makers on the World Heritage from Eastern and Central Europe" \n The Bureau, temporarily waiving the application of  Operational Guidelines  paragraph 121,  deferred  examination of the two requests from the Russian Federation, in view of the outstanding dues of the State Party since 1992, amounting to US$ 1,514,246. \n  No.  2001-430  Mexico  \n "Course on Conservation and Management of Archaeological Sites in the Humid Tropics" \n ICCROM informed the Bureau that the request addresses issues of great importance through an approach which is well designed, has accurate costs, is committed to postevent dissemination of training materials, and programmed to strengthen regional exchange and co-operation. However, ICCROM also noted that it would be useful to build on lessons learnt in past similar courses in Latin America, supported by the World Heritage Committee, notably PAT 96 and PAT 99. While this course may well be a pilot experience on the humid tropics, many of the issues involved are common to management of archaeological sites everywhere. Indeed, it would be useful to examine precedents beyond Latin America, in the Cultural Triangle of Sri Lanka for example, where many innovative approaches to management of archaeological sites in the tropics have been developed. Moreover, ICCROM informed the Bureau that it would be useful to see the nine modules in the proposed course linked within an explicit framework promoting integrated conservation and management. \n The Bureau  approved   US$ 20,900  for this activity, recommending the State Party to take into due consideration the comments provided by ICCROM. \n &nbsp;