The  Tenth Meeting of the Parties  decided in  Dec. X/26:      To note that the Russian Federation ratified the London Amendment on 13 January 1992. The country is classified as a non-Article 5 Party under the Protocol and, for 1996, reported positive consumption of 13,955 ODP tonnes, none of which was for essential uses exempted by the Parties. As a consequence, in 1996, the Russian Federation was in non-compliance with its control obligations under Articles 2A through 2E of the Montreal Protocol. The Russian Federation also expresses a belief that this situation will continue through at least the year 2000, necessitating annual review by the Implementation Committee and the Parties until such time as the Russian Federation comes into compliance;   To note with appreciation that the Russian Federation is making significant progress in coming into compliance with the Montreal Protocol. Data reported for 1996 indicates that the Russian Federation reduced consumption of CFCs from 20,990 ODP tonnes in 1995, to a level of 12,345 ODP tonnes. The Russian Federation submitted a country programme in October 1995 (revised in November 1995) that contains specific benchmarks and a phase-out schedule. In 1996, production of Annex A, Group I, substances was 16,770 ODP tonnes, well below the benchmark of 28,000 ODP tonnes contained in the country programme. Further steps were taken to bring the Russian Federation into compliance with its obligations under Articles 2A through 2E of the Montreal Protocol when, in October 1998, the \xe2\x80\x9cSpecial Initiative for ODS Production Closure in the Russian Federation\xe2\x80\x9d (Special Initiative) was signed. The Parties note that, in the country programme and the Special Initiative, the Russian Federation commits:     To reduce consumption of Annex A, Group I, substances to no more than 6,280 ODP tonnes in 1999;   To reduce consumption of Annex A, Group II, substances to no more than 960 ODP tonnes in 1999;   To reduce consumption of Annex B, Group I, substances to no more than 18 ODP tonnes in 1999;   To phase out the production of Annex A substances by 1 June 2000; and   To phase out the consumption of Annex A and B substances by 1 June 2000;     To closely monitor the progress of the Russian Federation with regard to the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances, particularly towards meeting the specific commitments in the 1995 country programme and the Special Initiative noted above. In this regard, the Parties request that the Russian Federation submit a complete copy of its country programme, and subsequent updates, if any, to the Ozone Secretariat. To the degree that the Russian Federation is working towards and meeting the specific time-based commitments in the country programme and the Special Initiative and continues to report data annually demonstrating a decrease in imports and consumption, the Russian Federation should continue to be treated in the same manner as a Party in good standing. In this regard, the Russian Federation should continue to receive international assistance to enable it to meet these commitments in accordance with item A of the indicative list of measures that might be taken by a meeting of the Parties in respect of non-compliance. However, through this decision, the Parties caution the Russian Federation, in accordance with item B of the indicative list of measures, that in the event that the country fails to meet the commitments noted in prior decisions as well as in the above documents in the times specified, the Parties shall consider measures, consistent with item C of the indicative list of measures. These measures could include the possibility of actions that may be available under Article 4, designed to ensure that the supply of CFCs and halons that is the subject of non-compliance is ceased, and that exporting Parties are not contributing to a continuing situation of non-compliance.