The  Tenth Meeting of the Parties  decided in  Dec. X/28:      To note that Uzbekistan ratified the Montreal Protocol on 18 May 1993, and ratified the London and Copenhagen Amendments on 10 June 1998. The country is classified as a non-Article 5 Party under the Protocol and, for 1996, reported positive consumption of 272 ODP tonnes of Annex A and Annex B substances, none of which was for essential uses exempted by the Parties. As a consequence, in 1996, Uzbekistan was in non-compliance with its obligations under Articles 2A through 2E of the Montreal Protocol. Uzbekistan also expresses a belief that this situation may continue through at least the year 2001, necessitating annual review by the Implementation Committee and the Parties until such time as Uzbekistan comes into compliance;   To note with appreciation the fact that Uzbekistan has made significant strides in coming into compliance with the Montreal Protocol, decreasing consumption steadily from an estimated 1,300 tonnes in 1992 to 275 tonnes in 1996. Its country programme shows its determination and commitment to phase out of Annex A and B substances by 2002. Specifically, the Parties note that the Uzbekistan country programme includes a commitment:     To reduce consumption of CFCs by 40% by 2000, by 80% by 2001, and completely by 2002;   To reduce consumption of carbon tetrachloride by 35% by 2000, by 67% by 2001, and completely by 2002;   To reduce consumption of methyl chloroform by 40% in 2000, by 82% in 2001, and completely in 2002;   To put in place in 1999, import quotas in order to freeze the imports at the current level and to support the phase-out schedule noted above;   To put in place by 1999, bans on imports of ODS and equipment using and containing ODS;   To put in place policy instruments and regulatory requirements to ensure progress in achieving the phase-out;     To note that, given the fact that virtually all of its remaining use is in the refrigeration-servicing sector, Uzbekistan will have to work very hard in the coming years to ensure that it maintains a downward momentum in consumption in order to ensure that it meets its commitment for a phase-out in Annex A and B substances by the year 2002. In this regard, the Tenth Meeting of the Parties is happy to see that Uzbekistan intends to focus its efforts towards training in the refrigeration sector, and refrigerant recovery and recycling. The Parties also note that it is critical that Uzbekistan put in place its licensing and quota system to control the import of ozone-depleting substances no later than September 1999 to meet its reduction commitment;   To closely monitor the progress of Uzbekistan with regard to the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances, particularly towards meeting the specific commitments noted above. In this regard, the Parties request that Uzbekistan submit a complete copy of its country programme, and subsequent updates, if any, to the Ozone Secretariat. To the degree that Uzbekistan is working towards and meeting the specific time-based commitments noted above and continues to report data annually demonstrating a decrease in imports and consumption, Uzbekistan should continue to be treated in the same manner as a Party in good standing. In this regard, Uzbekistan should continue to receive international assistance to enable it to meet these commitments in accordance with item A of the indicative list of measures that might be taken by a meeting of the Parties in respect of non-compliance. However, through this decision, the Parties caution Uzbekistan, in accordance with item B of the indicative list of measures, that in the event that the country fails to meet the commitments noted above in the times specified, the Parties shall consider measures, consistent with item C of the indicative list of measures. These measures could include the possibility of actions that may be available under Article 4, designed to ensure that the supply of CFCs and halons that is the subject of non-compliance is ceased, and that exporting Parties are not contributing to a continuing situation of non-compliance.