1. To endorse the reappointment of:   (a) Ms. Helen Tope (Australia) to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as co\xe2\x80\x91chair of the Medical Technical Options Committee for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   (b) Mr. Ian Porter (Australia) to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as co\xe2\x80\x91chair of the Methyl Bromide Technical Options Committee for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   (c) Mr. Roberto Peixoto ( Brazil) to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as co\xe2\x80\x91chair of the Refrigeration, Air Conditioning and Heat Pumps Technical Options Committee for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   (d) Ms. Marta Pizano (Colombia) to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as co\xe2\x80\x91chair of the Methyl Bromide Technical Options Committee for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   (e) Mr. Miguel Wenceslao Quintero (Colombia) to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as co-chair of the Flexible and Rigid Foams Technical Options Committee for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   (f) Mr. Mohamed Besri (Morocco) to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as co-chair of the Methyl Bromide Technical Options Committee for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   (g) Mr. Sergey Kopylov (Russian Federation) to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as co-chair of the Halons Technical Options Committee for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   (h) Mr. Jos\xc3\xa9 Pons Pons (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as co\xe2\x80\x91chair of the Medical Technical Options Committee for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   (i) Ms. Shiqiu Zhang (China) to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as a senior expert member for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   2. To appoint:   (a) Mr. Jianjun Zhang (China) to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as co\xe2\x80\x91chair of the Chemicals Technical Options Committee for a term of four years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;   (b) Mr. Marco Gonz\xc3\xa1lez (Costa Rica) to the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel as a senior expert member for a term of two years in accordance with section 2.3 of the terms of reference of the Panel;