The  Thirteenth Meeting of the Parties  decided in  Dec. XIII/20:      To note that Tajikistan ratified the Montreal Protocol and the London Amendment on 7 January 1998. The country is classified as a non-Article 5 Party under the Protocol and, for 1999, reported positive consumption of 50.8 ODP tonnes of Annex A and B substances, none of which was for essential uses exempted by the Parties. As a consequence, in 1999 Tajikistan was in non-compliance with its control obligations under Articles 2A through 2E of the Montreal Protocol. Tajikistan also expresses a belief that this situation will continue through at least the year 2004, necessitating annual review by the Implementation Committee and the Parties until such time as Tajikistan comes into compliance;   To express great concern about Tajikistan\xe2\x80\x99s non-compliance and to note that Tajikistan only very recently assumed the obligations of the Montreal Protocol, having ratified the Montreal Protocol and the London Amendment in 1998. It is with that understanding that the Parties note, after reviewing the country programme and submissions of Tajikistan, that Tajikistan specifically commits itself:     To reduce CFC consumption to 14.08 ODP tonnes for the calendar year 2002, to 4.69 ODP tonnes for 2003 and to phase out CFC consumption by 1 January 2004 (save for essential uses authorized by the Parties);   To phase out consumption of all other Annex A and B controlled substances by 1 January 2002;   To establish, in 2002, a system for licensing imports and exports of ODS;   To reduce methyl bromide consumption to 0.56 ODP tonnes for calendar year 2002, to 0.28 ODP tonnes for calendar year 2003, and to phase out methyl bromide consumption by 1 January 2005;     That the measures listed in paragraph 2 above should enable Tajikistan to achieve the near total phase-out of all Annex B substances by 1 January 2002, all Annex A substances by 1 January 2004 and the Annex E substance by 1 January 2005. In this regard, the Parties urge Tajikistan to work with relevant implementing agencies to shift current consumption to non-ozone-depleting alternatives;   To closely monitor the progress of Tajikistan with regard to the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances, particularly towards meeting the specific commitments noted above. In this regard, the Parties request that Tajikistan submit a complete copy of its country programme and subsequent updates, if any, to the Ozone Secretariat. To the degree that Tajikistan is working towards and meeting the specific time-based commitments noted above and continues to report data annually demonstrating a decrease in imports and consumption, Tajikistan should continue to be treated in the same manner as a Party in good standing. In this regard, Tajikistan should continue to receive international assistance to enable it to meet these commitments in accordance with item A of the indicative list of measures that might be taken by a Meeting of the Parties in respect of non-compliance. However, through this decision, the Parties caution Tajikistan, in accordance with item B of the indicative list of measures, that in the event that the country fails to meet the commitments noted above in the times specified, the Parties shall consider measures, consistent with item C of the indicative list of measures. These measures could include the possibility of actions that may be available under Article 4, designed to ensure that the supply of Annex A and B controlled substances that is the subject of non-compliance is ceased, and that exporting Parties are not contributing to a continuing situation of non-compliance.