26. The Committee examined four nominations to the List of World Heritage in Danger submitted by the States Parties concerned. The Committee noted the recommendations of ICOMOS and IUCN and made the following decisions: \n  Wieliczka Salt Mine (Poland)  ICOMOS provided the Committee with the information which the Polish authorities had given for this property. The Committee considered that there was insufficient geological information at present to evaluate the dangers facing this property. The Committee therefore decided to defer a decision on this nomination until more information had been obtained and expressed the wish that in the meantime the national authorities concerned ensure the necessary protection. \n  Djoudj National Bird Sanctuary (Senegal)  The Committee was informed by IUCN that the immediate threat posed by the earthen dam upstream from this property had been removed since the recent rains had been sufficiently abundant to wash this temporary dam away. However, the longer term threat posed by the dam to be constructed down-stream still remained and still,seriously jeopardised the future of this site. Taking IUCN\'s comments and reconrmendations into account, and the response of the Senegalese authorities to the Director General\'s request, the Committee decided to inscribe Djoudj National Bird Sanctuary on the List of World Heritage in Danger. \n  Ngorongoro Conservation Area (Tanzania)  The IUCN representative presented the evaluation of the conservation status of this property which had regrettably continued to decline and noted that the Tanzanian authorities had recently responded positively to the request of the Director General to inscribe this property on the List of World Heritage in Danger. Taking account of IUCN\'s observations, the Commi\'ttee decided to inscribe Ngorongoro Conservation Area on the List of World Heritage in Danger. \n  Garamba National Park (Zaire)  The Committee took note of IUCN\'s evaluation of this nomination and of up-to-date information on the very critical situation of the white rhinoceros population, now estimated to total less than 15 specimens, which means this sub-species is severely threatened. The Committee noted IUCN\'s observations and the positive response of the Zaire authorities to the Director General\'s letter and decided to inscribe Garamba National Park on the List of World Heritage in Danger. \n  27. Mr. Batisse, on noting the Committee\'s decision to inscribe the 3 natural sites described above on the List of World Heritage in Danger, remarked that these inscriptions would constitute a test of the effectiveness of the Convention on mobilising public opinion and solidarity to provide the important national or international support necessary for their preservation. \n &nbsp;