The  Thirteenth Meeting of the Parties  decided in  Dec. XIII/24:      To note that Ethiopia ratified the Montreal Protocol on 11 October 1994 and has not ratified the London and Copenhagen Amendments. The country is classified as a Party operating under Article 5 (1) of the Protocol and had its country programme approved by the Executive Committee in 1996. Since approval of the country programme, the Executive Committee has approved $330,844 from the Multilateral Fund to enable compliance in accordance with Article 10 of the Protocol;   Ethiopia\xe2\x80\x99s baseline for Annex A, Group I substances is 33.8 ODP tonnes. Ethiopia reported consumption of 39 and 39 ODP tonnes of Annex A, Group I substances in 1999 and 2000 respectively. Ethiopia responded to the Ozone Secretariat\xe2\x80\x99s request for data for the control period 1 July 1999 to 30 June 2000. Ethiopia reported consumption of 39.2 ODP tonnes of Annex A, Group I substances for the consumption freeze control period of 1 July 1999 to 30 June 2000. As a consequence, for the control period 1 July 1999 to 30 June 2000, Ethiopia was in non-compliance with its obligations under Article 2A of the Montreal Protocol;   To request that Ethiopia submit to the Implementation Committee a plan of action with time-specific benchmarks to ensure a prompt return to compliance. Ethiopia may wish to consider including in its plan actions to establish import quotas to freeze imports at baseline levels and support the phase-out schedule, to establish a ban on imports of ODS equipment, and to put in place policy and regulatory instruments that ensure progress in achieving the phase-out;   To closely monitor the progress of Ethiopia with regard to the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances. To the degree that Ethiopia is working towards and meeting the specific Protocol control measures, Ethiopia should continue to be treated in the same manner as a Party in good standing. In this regard, Ethiopia should continue to receive international assistance to enable it to meet these commitments in accordance with item A of the indicative list of measures that might be taken by a Meeting of the Parties in respect of non-compliance. However, through this decision, the Parties caution Ethiopia, in accordance with item B of the indicative list of measures, that in the event that the country fails to return to compliance in a timely manner, the Parties shall consider measures, consistent with item C of the indicative list of measures. These measures may include the possibility of actions available under Article 4, such as ensuring that the supply of CFCs (that is the subject of non-compliance) is ceased and that importing Parties are not contributing to a continuing situation of non-compliance.