The  Thirteenth Meeting of the Parties  decided in  Dec. XIII/22:      To note that Belize ratified the Montreal Protocol, London Amendment, and Copenhagen Amendment on 9 January 1998. The country is classified as a Party operating under Article 5 (1) of the Protocol and had its country programme approved by the Executive Committee in 1999. Since approval of the country programme, the Executive Committee has approved $327,841 from the Multilateral Fund to enable compliance in accordance with Article 10 of the Protocol;   Belize\xe2\x80\x99s consumption baseline for Annex A, Group I substances is 16 ODP tonnes. Belize reported consumption of 25 and 9 ODP tonnes of Annex A, Group I substances in 1999 and 2000 respectively. Belize responded to the Ozone Secretariat\xe2\x80\x99s request for data for the control period 1 July 1999 to 30 June 2000. Belize reported consumption of 20 ODP tonnes of Annex A, Group I controlled substances for the consumption freeze control period of 1 July 1999 to 30 June 2000. As a consequence, for the control period 1 July 1999 to 30 June 2000, Belize was in non-compliance with its obligations under Article 2A of the Montreal Protocol;   To request that Belize submit to the Implementation Committee a plan of action with time-specific benchmarks to ensure a prompt return to compliance. Belize may wish to consider including in its plan actions to establish import quotas to freeze imports at baseline levels and support the phase-out schedule, to establish a ban on imports of ODS equipment, and to put in place policy and regulatory instruments that ensure progress in achieving the phase-out;   To closely monitor the progress of Belize with regard to the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances. To the degree that Belize is working towards and meeting the specific Protocol control measures, Belize should continue to be treated in the same manner as a Party in good standing. In this regard, Belize should continue to receive international assistance to enable it to meet these commitments in accordance with item A of the indicative list of measures that might be taken by a Meeting of the Parties in respect of non-compliance. However, through this decision, the Parties caution Belize, in accordance with item B of the indicative list of measures, that in the event that the country fails to return to compliance in a timely manner, the Parties shall consider measures, consistent with item C of the indicative list of measures. These measures may include the possibility of actions available under Article 4, such as ensuring that the supply of CFCs (that is the subject of non-compliance) is ceased and that importing Parties are not contributing to a continuing situation of non-compliance.